Class	ID	Text
research-article	ACY371752	Review of the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology: A Local Study in Bohol Island, Philippines Review of the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology: A Local Study in Bohol Island, Philippines Objectives: The aim of this study was to evaluate the adaptability and reproducibility of the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology (BSRTC) in a local setting and to determine the risk of malignancy for each category. Materials and Methods: A retrospective cross-sectional study of 80 thyroid fine-needle aspiration cytology cases using the BSRTC with corresponding histopathology was done between September 2009 and December 2012. Agreement scores were calculated using kappa statistics. Results: Consensus among two readers was attained for 73 cases (91.25%). No disagreement was noted for the malignant cases. The strength of agreement was very good, with a kappa statistic of 0.90. The risk of malignancy observed histologically was as follows: benign 3%, atypia of undetermined significance (AUS) 50%, suspicious for follicular/Hürthle cell neoplasm 50%, suspicious for malignancy 78%, and malignant 100%. Conclusion: In this study, there is an outstanding reproducibility for the classification scheme. The application of the BSRTC as the standardized reporting is readily adaptable and therefore its application in larger medical centers is highly recommended. Our findings of a higher risk of malignancy seen in AUS (50%) and malignant (100%) categories in those who underwent surgical resection corroborated other published studies. Conveying this risk to clinical colleagues is important and will facilitate optimal patient care.
case-report	ACY448836	Carcinoma Showing Thymus-Like Differentiation (CASTLE): Cytopathological Features and Differential Diagnosis Carcinoma Showing Thymus-Like Differentiation (CASTLE): Cytopathological Features and Differential Diagnosis Background: CASTLE (carcinoma showing thymus-like differentiation) is a rare tumor (accounting for less than 0.15% of thyroid neoplasms) with most of the reported cases from Asia. Although this tumor is rare, distinguishing it from more aggressive neoplasms is critical because of its improved prognosis. To date, there have been limited studies on its cytomorphological features. Herein, we review the cytomorphological features of 10 fine-needle aspiration (FNA) cases of histologically confirmed CASTLE and discuss the findings in light of the current literature. Methods: We retrospectively (1989-2016) identified 10 cases of CASTLE from 17,415 surgical cases of thyroid carcinoma from The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center. The cases were reviewed for discrete cytomorphological characteristics. Results: All of the cases displayed predominantly single (dishesive) epithelial cell populations, high nuclear/cytoplasmic ratios, hyperchromatic to open/vesicular nuclei and macronucleoli. The majority of cases additionally showed hypercellular, three-dimensional fragments in a background of lymphocytes. The fragments displayed syncytial architecture without molding and rarely squamous differentiation. All cases lacked follicular differentiation, intranuclear inclusions, nuclear molding, or neuroendocrine-type chromatin. Conclusions: Cytopathological features alone do not appear to be distinctive or definitive of CASTLE but rather allow for the inclusion of CASTLE within the differential diagnosis. Procurement of cell block material is important and resulted in the single case of CASTLE accurately diagnosed on FNA. Cytopathological features that favored CASTLE included syncytial fragments of malignant cells with pleomorphic large nuclei, vesicular chromatin, and prominent nucleoli in a background of lymphocytes. These cytopathological findings in the appropriate clinicoradiological context warrant its inclusion in the reported differential diagnosis in order to be able to implement appropriate clinical management.
case-report	ACY449460	Cytomorphology and Histology Correlation of Rosai-Dorfman Disease: A 15-Year Study from a Tertiary Referral Centre in South India Cytomorphology and Histology Correlation of Rosai-Dorfman Disease: A 15-Year Study from a Tertiary Referral Centre in South India Objectives: Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD) is an uncommon, benign histiocytic disorder of unknown etiology, typically presenting in young adulthood. We highlight the cytomorphology of RDD and correlate it with the histopathology. Study Design: All cases diagnosed as RDD on fine-needle aspiration cytology between January 2001 and June 2015 were included. Clinical details were obtained from medical records. The cytology smears were reviewed along with the histopathology and immunohistochemistry, wherever available. Results: The study included 10 cases ranging in age from 11 to 68 years (median 29). There was a male predominance with a male:female ratio of 1.5:1. The patients commonly presented with bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy. Extranodal involvement was seen in 2 cases in the nose and mandible, respectively. Of these 10 cases, 8 were later biopsied. The cytological features included numerous crescentic histiocytes, emperipolesis, reactive lymphocytes and plasma cells. A histological diagnosis of RDD was made in 7 out of 8 cases, and 1 was diagnosed as Hodgkin lymphoma. Conclusion: FNA represents an efficient, minimally invasive, cost-effective and reliable technique for the diagnosis of RDD and may obviate the need for further biopsy. However, the disease has close differential diagnoses, including Langerhans cell histiocytosis, granulomatous lesions, and Hodgkin lymphoma. Hence, it must be remembered that there can be pitfalls when the diagnosis is made by cytology alone.
meta-analysis	ACY469654	Impact of the Reclassification of the Non-Invasive Follicular Variant of Papillary Carcinoma as Benign on the Malignancy Risk of the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology: A Meta-Analysis Study Impact of the Reclassification of the Non-Invasive Follicular Variant of Papillary Carcinoma as Benign on the Malignancy Risk of the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology: A Meta-Analysis Study Objectives: The Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology (TBSRTC) established diagnostic categories for cytologic specimens of the thyroid. Each category was associated with an estimated risk of malignancy. Recently, the non-invasive follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma has been reclassified as benign. This reclassification may alter the malignancy risk of TBSRTC diagnostic categories. Study Design: A literature search was made for all studies investigating the effect of reclassification of some non-invasive follicular variant papillary thyroid carcinomas as benign on the malignancy risk associated with TBSRTC categories. The authors calculated the malignancy risk for TBSRTC categories in a series of 315 thyroid aspirates when the non-invasive follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma was considered benign. A meta-analysis of malignancy risk data for the 3 published studies and the current study was performed. Results: The meta-analysis showed that the malignancy risk was reduced for all TBSRTC categories except the “non-diagnostic” category. The reduction in malignancy risk was greatest in the categories “suspicious for malignancy” and “atypia/follicular lesion of undetermined significance.” Conclusion: A meta-analysis of all pertinent studies demonstrated that re-categorization of the non-invasive follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma as benign reduces the malignancy risk in the majority of TBSRTC categories.
review-article	ACY479307	Clinical Utility of Endometrial Cell Block Cytology in Postmenopausal Women Clinical Utility of Endometrial Cell Block Cytology in Postmenopausal Women Objective: To investigate the diagnostic utility of endometrial (EM) cell block (CB) cytology for the detection of intrauterine malignancy in postmenopausal women. Methods: We reviewed the medical records of 104 postmenopausal women between January 2012 and November 2014. We reviewed symptoms upon admission, body mass index, parity, transvaginal ultrasonographic findings, and histopathological results based on CB and conventional cytology. Results: The mean age was 62.6 (range 48-95) years. The mean menopausal age was 50.8 years and the mean duration of menopause was 12.0 years. The sensitivity of CB and conventional cytology was 82.3% (29/35) and 85.7% (30/35) and the specificity was 98.6% (68/69) and 94.2% (65/69), respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of CB cytology combined with conventional cytology were 82.3% (29/35) and 94.2% (65/69), respectively. The predictive values for EM hyperplasia and type-II carcinoma were 100 and 85.7%, respectively. Conclusion: CB cytology provides specimens for examination in a single outpatient session. Additionally, immunohistochemical staining can provide useful information for histological diagnosis. A combination of CB and conventional cytology can improve the diagnostic accuracy of EM lesions and may be a valid method for screening in postmenopausal women.
case-report	ACY493000	"Glandular Cell Abnormalities on SurePath Preparations: A Retrospective Review with Cytology-Histology Correlations Glandular Cell Abnormalities on SurePath Preparations: A Retrospective Review with Cytology-Histology Correlations Objective: Detecting glandular lesions is challenging by all Pap test methodologies. As the availability of data on identifying glandular abnormalities by SurePath is scarce, we investigated the detection rates and the correlation with histology follow-up. Study Design: A total of 105,927 cases (SurePath and conventional) were searched for the diagnosis of atypical glandular cells or higher glandular abnormalities (AGC+) with the corresponding histologic diagnosis. The associations between the Pap test methods and diagnostic categories were assessed by χ2 test. Results: Overall, 0.32% of SurePath (159/49,375) and 0.29% of conventional (164/56,552) cases showed AGC+ (p = 0.38). Histology confirmed significant abnormalities in 42 versus 53.5% of the cases, respectively (p = 0.064); 72.7% (SurePath) versus 65.2% (conventional) of these were glandular in nature (p = 0.37). The diagnosis of neoplasia (favored or definitive) showed malignancy on follow-up in 100% of SurePath cases (12/12). In contrast, 82.1% of these conventional cases disclosed premalignant or malignant lesions by histology (p = 0.12). Conclusions: AGC+ cases showed higher prevalence on SurePath preparations. Conventional cases had more abnormalities on follow-up, while glandular lesions represented a higher proportion of abnormal histologies following SurePath AGC+s. The positive predictive value of favored or definite neoplasia was higher in SurePath cases. Overall, these differences were not statistically significant."
case-report	ACY493081	Cytopathology of Solid Variant of Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma: Differential Diagnoses with other Thyroid Tumors Cytopathology of Solid Variant of Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma: Differential Diagnoses with other Thyroid Tumors Objectives: Solid variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (SVPTC) is rare, differing from classical PTC (cPTC) in architecture and outcome. We evaluated the cytomorphology of SVPTC cases to assess the feasibility of a preoperative diagnosis. Study Design: SVPTC cases were evaluated for architecture, nuclear features, and Bethesda category and were compared with noninvasive follicular thyroid neoplasm with papillary-like nuclear features/follicular variant of PTC (NIFTP/FVPTC), cPTC, and poorly differentiated thyroid carcinoma (PDTC). Results: Nine SVPTCs, 29 NIFTP/FVPTCs, 12 cPTCs, and 4 PDTCs were included. The predominant architecture in most SVPTCs was solid fragment, which is helpful in differentiating them from NIFTP/FVPTC (p &
case-report	ACY493335	Cytologic Features of SMARCA4-Deficient Thoracic Sarcoma: A Case Report and Comparison with Other SWI/SNF Complex-Deficient Tumors Cytologic Features of SMARCA4-Deficient Thoracic Sarcoma: A Case Report and Comparison with Other SWI/SNF Complex-Deficient Tumors Background: SMARCA4-deficient thoracic sarcoma is a recently proposed entity of soft tissue tumors associated with an extremely poor prognosis. Its cytologic features have not been well described in the literature yet. Case: A woman in her early 30s who presented with chest pain was found to have a tumor in the right chest wall. Cytologic smears revealed numerous atypical round-to-polygonal cells appearing singly or in loosely cohesive clusters. These cells had a well-defined cell border, scant-to-moderate cytoplasm, and enlarged vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli. In addition, some cells with eosinophilic globular intracytoplasmic inclusions and eccentrically located nuclei, consistent with rhabdoid cells, were observed. Immunocytochemically, the cells were at least focally positive for cytokeratin CAM5.2 and CD34 and showed a significantly reduced BRG1/SMARCA4 expression. The diagnosis was confirmed by histological, immunohistochemical, and genetic analysis of a metastatic lesion to the left axillary lymph node. Conclusion: Although the cytologic features of SMARCA4-deficient thoracic sarcoma are not fully unique, they are sufficiently characteristic to suspect this tumor in cases of supporting clinical and radiological features, which may promote additional immunological or molecular testing to establish a definitive diagnosis.
case-report	ACY493336	The Differential Diagnosis in Nonlymphoproliferative Malignant Pleural Effusion Cytopathology and Its Correlation with Patients’ Demographics The Differential Diagnosis in Nonlymphoproliferative Malignant Pleural Effusion Cytopathology and Its Correlation with Patients’ Demographics Background: We report our experience with malignant pleural effusion (MPE) and the impact of patients’ demographics on the differential diagnosis at the primary site. Methods: After IRB approval, we searched our pathology database from January 2013 to January 2017 for patients with positive pleural effusions (PEs). Patients’ demographics and clinical histories were noted. Results: 474 patients were identified (288 females [61%] and 186 males [39%]), ranging in age from 19 to 64 years old. Ethnicity was distributed as follows: Caucasian (n = 330, 70%), African American (n = 114, 24%) and Asian (n = 30, 6%). The most common primary sites were the lung (n = 180, 37%), followed by the breast (n = 81, 17%), and the gynecologic system (67, 13%). The lung was the most common primary for all ethnicities (n = 190, 40%). The second-most common primary site was the breast in African Americans and Caucasians and upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract in Asians. In 5 cases (1%), the primary tumor could not be determined. Conclusion: Cytology examination is a useful method to diagnose primary sites of PE. Pulmonary primary is the most common cause of effusion in all ethnicities. In African American and Caucasian patients, the breast was the second-most common site of MPE, while in Asian patients it was the upper GI tract.
case-report	AHA323565	Cyclosporine A for Chemotherapy-Resistant Subcutaneous Panniculitis-Like T Cell Lymphoma with Hemophagocytic Syndrome Cyclosporine A for Chemotherapy-Resistant Subcutaneous Panniculitis-Like T Cell Lymphoma with Hemophagocytic Syndrome Subcutaneous panniculitis-like T cell lymphoma (SPTL) is a rare subtype of non-Hodgkin lymphoma for which a definitive therapeutic strategy has not been established yet. We report a case of chemotherapy-resistant SPTL with hemophagocytic syndrome (HPS) which was successfully treated with cyclosporine A (CsA) plus methylprednisolone (mPSL), and also reviewed 11 SPTL cases treated with CsA, previously reported in the literature. Our patient was a 38-year-old female with SPTL. The disease progressed despite conventional chemotherapy using cytotoxic agents including alkylators, anthracyclins or purine analogues, and, after 2 months of chemotherapy, was eventually complicated by HPS and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). CsA (4 mg/kg/day) plus mPSL treatment dramatically improved HPS with DIC, reduced subcutaneous tumors within 2 weeks, and finally induced complete remission (CR) after 3 months. Currently, the patient has maintained CR while being treated with CsA for 12 months. In addition to our case, 9 of 11 SPTL cases were successfully treated with CsA, and 8 were induced to CR. Time to first response to CsA was within 2 weeks in most cases, regardless of prior treatment or the co-occurrence of HPS. Our case and this first comprehensive review on CsA for SPTL suggest that CsA may constitute a candidate treatment strategy for SPTL.
case-report	AHA323662	Challenges for Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in the Era of Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Challenges for Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in the Era of Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Following the introduction of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) imatinib in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients, the allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) scene in CML has changed dramatically. The number of patients receiving HSCT in first chronic phase (CP) has declined rapidly, as allogeneic HSCT in CP is now performed in these patients only in case of failure or intolerance of TKIs. Second, those CML patients who undergo allogeneic HSCT represent a selection of high-risk patients due to more advanced disease with high rates of accelerated or blast phase (being associated with an increased relapse risk), advanced age and relevant co-morbidities. Efforts at meeting these special challenges are being developed: treatment with TKIs aims to improve the pre-transplant remission status before HSCT. Dose-reduced conditioning protocols were introduced to decrease transplant-related mortality in patients with co-morbidities or older age. In the post-transplant period, TKIs may be administered for prophylaxis and for treatment of post-transplant relapse. Still, the outcome of patients in advanced CML phases remains guarded, and requires an improvement in current transplant strategies.
systematic-review	AHA328417	A Systematic Review on the Use of Bortezomib in Multiple Myeloma Patients with Renal Impairment: What Is the Published Evidence? A Systematic Review on the Use of Bortezomib in Multiple Myeloma Patients with Renal Impairment: What Is the Published Evidence? This report presents the totality of evidence through a systematic review that assessed either the efficacy or safety of bortezomib-based regimens in multiple myeloma with renal impairment. A systematic and comprehensive search of the literature was performed using MEDLINE databases from 1978 to December 1, 2010, and a hand search of references. We used the following medical subject headings (MESH) to identify potential studies: ‘myeloma renal failure’ (1,225 hits) and ‘bortezomib’ (2,554 hits). An additional search performed by combining the MESH terms ‘myeloma renal failure’ and ‘bortezomib’ yielded 50 citations. Five additional case-control studies judged relevant for the purpose of study were also included. In total, 6 case reports, 9 case series and 9 case-control studies were identified that reported on myeloma, renal failure and bortezomib. In this review, only the case series and case-control studies were considered. The results of our search led to the following conclusions: (1) bortezomib is feasible and well tolerated and its efficacy and safety are not substantially modified by renal failure patients, (2) renal failure should not induce physicians to reduce doses, since the efficacy of bortezomib is attained also in dialyzed patients who may achieve dialysis independence, and (3) standard doses of bortezomib (i.e. 1.3 mg/m2 on days 1, 4, 8, 11) associated with dexamethasone yield satisfactory tumor response, generally obtained shortly after starting therapy. Although many questions remain unanswered, our effort should be considered a relevant scientific and practical address for generating a diagnostic and therapeutic algorithm to be used in patients with renal impairment related to multiple myeloma.
research-article	AHA345418	"Specific Binding of Paraprotein to Platelet Receptors as a Cause of Platelet Dysfunction in Monoclonal Gammopathies Specific Binding of Paraprotein to Platelet Receptors as a Cause of Platelet Dysfunction in Monoclonal Gammopathies The study included 48 untreated patients with monoclonal gammopathies (MG). Paraprotein was isolated from the serum of 10 patients with decreased platelet aggregation. Platelet aggregation was measured before and after the addition of the isolated paraprotein to platelet-rich plasma (PRP) from 10 healthy donors, in vitro. Expression of platelet von Willebrand factor (vWF) receptor glycoprotein (GP)Ib and platelet collagen receptor GPVI was determined by flow cytometry in the PRP of healthy donors before and after the addition of isolated paraprotein using the monoclonal antibodies, CD42b (for GPIb) and CD36 (for GPVI). Flowcytometry showed that expression of CD42b and CD36 positive cells was reduced after the addition of isolated paraprotein to PRP from healthy donors (p &lt; 0.001). These investigations demonstrated that paraprotein causes platelet dysfunction in patients with MG due to specific binding to the platelet vWF receptor GPIb and platelet collagen receptor GPVI."
research-article	AHA346436	"Prognostic Significance of Pretreatment 18F-FDG PET/CT in Patients with Relapsed/Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Treated by Radioimmunotherapy Using 131I-Rituximab Prognostic Significance of Pretreatment 18F-FDG PET/CT in Patients with Relapsed/Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Treated by Radioimmunotherapy Using 131I-Rituximab Aims: It was the aim of this paper to identify prognostic factors in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, treated by radioimmunotherapy (RIT) with radioiodinated human/murine chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab (131I-rituximab). Methods: Twenty-four patients were enrolled prospectively and were treated with unlabeled rituximab 70 mg and a therapeutic activity (median 7.3 GBq) of 131I-rituximab. Contrast-enhanced 18F-FDG PET/CT scans were performed before and after 1 month of RIT. Tumor sizes and maximum standardized uptake values (SUVmax) of scans were measured. Results: Four of the 24 patients survived. High SUVmax in a pretreatment scan was found to be related to poorer overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (p = 0.04 and 0.02, respectively). Furthermore, a large tumor size in a pretreatment scan was associated with poorer OS but not with progression-free survival (p &lt; 0.01 and p = 0.07, respectively). By multivariate analyses, a high SUVmax, a large tumor size in a pretreatment scan and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma histology were significantly associated with poorer OS [p = 0.04/hazard ratio (HR) = 3.54, p &lt; 0.01/HR = 5.52, and p = 0.02/HR = 3.38, respectively). Conclusion: SUVmax and tumor size determined by a pretreatment 18F-FDG PET/CT result as significant predictors of OS in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated by RIT."
research-article	AHA346441	Inhibition of miR-21 Induces Biological and Behavioral Alterations in Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Inhibition of miR-21 Induces Biological and Behavioral Alterations in Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) has been ascribed a key role in many cellular processes, e.g. tumorigenesis via inhibition of target gene expression. However, its role in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is still unclear, and there are no in-depth studies on the relationship between miR-21 and the cellular phenotype of DLBCL. In this study, we investigated the expression and role of miR-21 in the regulation of cell biological processes in DLBCL. Firstly, miR-21 expression was evaluated in three DLBCL cell lines by real-time quantitative reverse-transcription (qRT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Then, to determine the possible role of miR-21 in the biological and behavioral characteristics of DLBCL, we performed miR-21 knockdown by transfection with anti-miR-21. In addition, PDCD4 and PTEN were assessed by luciferase reporter assay, qRT-PCR, and Western blot. Our study revealed that miR-21 was significantly upregulated in activated B-cell-like DLBCL cells compared to germinal center-like DLBCL cells. We demonstrated that inhibition of miR-21 induced suppression of proliferation and invasion, as well as increased apoptosis in DLBCL. Moreover, knockdown of miR-21 increased PDCD4 and PTEN expression at the protein level but not at the mRNA level. In conclusion, miR-21 can regulate proliferation, invasion, and apoptosis, and thus it has a potential therapeutic application in DLBCL.
meta-analysis	AHA358579	"Allogeneic Stem-Cell Transplantation for Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma: A Systemic Review and Meta-Analysis Allogeneic Stem-Cell Transplantation for Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma: A Systemic Review and Meta-Analysis Peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) comprises a heterogeneous group of mature T-cell tumors with a poor prognosis; allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) may offer a potential way of cure for these patients though the optimal type and timing of transplantation remain to be defined. We performed a systemic review and meta-analysis examining the efficacy and safety of allo-SCT for PTCL. The pooled 3-year overall survival (OS) of PTCL patients treated with allo-SCT was 49.6% (95% confidence interval, CI: 41.7-57.5%). A meta-analysis of 3-year OS in allo-SCT and autologous SCT (auto-SCT) showed no statistical difference. The rates of pooled acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD; grade 2/4) and chronic GVHD were 26.7% (95% CI: 21.4-32.9%) and 29.9% (95% CI: 24.3-36.1%), respectively. The pooled 100-day treatment-related mortality was 24.2% (95% CI: 17.2-33.0%). Of the total study patients (n = 299), 48.5% were reported dead after allo-hematopoietic SCT, with disease progression as the first cause of death in PTCL patients. Although most studies included were retrospective and their sample size was small, existing data suggested that the group of PTCL patients receiving allo-SCT was to a great degree homogeneous regarding OS, mortality without relapse, death rate and the incidence of GVHD. The most common cause of death was disease progression. The present data did not show a difference in OS between allo- and auto-SCT in PTCL patients, but large prospective studies are needed to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the role of allo-SCT in the treatment of PTCL patients. © 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel"
systematic-review	AHA360212	Adolescents and Young Adults with Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma: Slipping between the Cracks Adolescents and Young Adults with Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma: Slipping between the Cracks Adolescents and young adults (AYAs) with cancer have inferior survival as compared to children. The reasons for this survival gap are multifactorial and related to psychosocial aspects, patient- and disease-related biological characteristics as well as to therapeutic approaches within this age span. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) comprises approximately 7% of cancer among AYAs, and patient allocation and therapy vary between health systems. In this systematic review we focus on the current biological and clinical knowledge relevant to AYAs with NHL applying these data to the clinical approach and practice. Data are insufficient to recommend a pediatric or an adult approach for AYAs with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Dose-adjusted EPOCH-R seems to be a promising, radiation-free approach for AYAs with primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma. Limitations in data interpretation include the lack of interventional trials tailored specifically for the AYA population and the lack of uniform criteria for staging and response assessment in pediatric and adult trials.
meta-analysis	AHA369242	"Insights into the All-trans-Retinoic Acid and Arsenic Trioxide Combination Treatment for Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia: A Meta-Analysis Insights into the All-trans-Retinoic Acid and Arsenic Trioxide Combination Treatment for Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia: A Meta-Analysis Background: This study aimed to compare the curative effects of the combination therapy of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide (ATO, As2O3) with ATRA monotherapy on newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Methods: The studies were retrieved from PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, ChinaInfo and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) databases from the inception to June 20, 2014. Thereafter, the eligible studies were selected based on the predefined criteria, and the literature quality was assessed. The meta-analysis was conducted using Review Manager 5.2 software. The pooled effect size was relative risk (RR) and its 95% confidence interval (CI). Results: A total of 8 studies containing 480 cases were included, among which 264 were assigned to the ATRA + ATO group and the other 216 to the ATRA group. The meta-analysis showed that ATRA + ATO combination therapy significantly improved the complete remission (CR) rate (RR = 1.09, 95% CI = 1.03-1.16, p = 0.004), decreased the early mortality rate (RR = 0.42, 95% CI = 0.20-0.9, p = 0.03) and relapse rate (RR = 0.17, 95% CI = 0.07-0.42, p &lt; 0.0001), but increased the high risk of liver dysfunction (RR = 2.43, 95% CI = 1.72-3.41, p &lt; 0.00001), comparing with ATRA monotherapy. Conclusions: The ATRA + ATO combination therapy may be more effective for newly diagnosed APL with a higher CR rate but lower early mortality rate and relapse rate. However, the risks of liver damage should be of concern."
research-article	AHA369446	Apoptosis-Related Gene Expression Profile in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Patients after Imatinib Mesylate and Dasatinib Therapy Apoptosis-Related Gene Expression Profile in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Patients after Imatinib Mesylate and Dasatinib Therapy Background/Aims: We investigated the effects of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) on the expression of apoptosis-related genes (BCL-2 and death receptor family members) in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients. Methods: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 32 healthy subjects and 26 CML patients were evaluated before and after treatment with imatinib mesylate (IM) and dasatinib (DAS) by quantitative PCR. Results: Anti-apoptotic genes (c-FLIP and MCL-1) were overexpressed and the pro-apoptotic BIK was reduced in CML patients. Expression of BMF, A1, c-FLIP, MCL-1, CIAP-2 and CIAP-1 was modulated by DAS. In IM-resistant patients, expression of A1, c-FLIP, CIAP-1 and MCL-1 was upregulated, and BCL-2, CIAP-2, BAK, BAX, BIK and FASL expression was downregulated. Conclusion: Taken together, our results point out that, in CML, DAS interferes with the apoptotic machinery regulation. In addition, the data suggest that apoptosis-related gene expression profiles are associated with primary resistance to IM.
meta-analysis	AHA369522	"Association of MDM2 Polymorphism with Risk and Prognosis of Leukemia: A Meta-Analysis Association of MDM2 Polymorphism with Risk and Prognosis of Leukemia: A Meta-Analysis Objective: In this study, we performed an updated meta-analysis by summarizing all available relevant association studies to evaluate whether the murine double minute-2 (MDM2) T309G polymorphism is associated with risk of leukemia and to determine its prognostic effect. Material and Methods: Studies published in PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Controlled Trial Register were searched till June 2014 using the search terms ‘MDM2', ‘polymorphism' and ‘leukemia'. Results: Eleven studies were included in this meta-analysis, with a total of 2,478 patients accrued. There were 8 studies providing data on single nucleotide polymorphism at position 309 (SNP309) and risk of leukemia and 7 studies providing data on SNP309 and overall survival. Our analysis showed that patients having G/G mutations had a significantly higher risk of developing leukemia (HR 1.90, 95% CI 1.56-2.31, p &lt; 0.00001), while the association between G/T and leukemia was not significant (HR 1.18, 95% CI 0.96-1.45, p = 0.11). In addition, SNP309 was not significantly associated with patient survival (HR 1.29, 95% CI 0.79-2.13, p = 0.31). Conclusions: Our meta-analysis showed that the MDM2 T309G variation, especially homozygous G/G, might be associated with an increased risk of leukemia. Additional studies are needed to confirm the findings as well as to understand the underlying mechanisms."
meta-analysis	AHA370096	"The Role of Consolidative Radiotherapy after a Complete Response to Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma in the Rituximab Era: Results from a Systematic Review with a Meta-Analysis The Role of Consolidative Radiotherapy after a Complete Response to Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma in the Rituximab Era: Results from a Systematic Review with a Meta-Analysis Background: The current standard therapy for patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone (RCHOP). The role of radiotherapy (RT) after complete response (CR) to RCHOP in patients with DLBCL remains unclear. This systematic review with a meta-analysis is an attempt to evaluate this role. Methods: Studies that evaluated RT versus no-RT after CR to RCHOP for DLBCL patients were searched in databases. Hazard ratios (HR) with their respective 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using a random-effects model. Results: A total of 4 qualified retrospective studies (633 patients) were included in this review. The results suggested that RT improved overall survival (OS; HR 0.33, 95% CI 0.14-0.77) and progression-free/event-free survival (PFS/EFS; HR 0.24, 95% CI 0.11-0.50) in all patients compared with no-RT. In a subgroup analysis of patients with stage III-IV DLBCL, RT improved PFS/EFS (HR 0.19, 95% CI 0.07-0.51) and local control (HR 0.12, 95% CI 0.03-0.44), with a trend of improving OS (HR 0.35, 95% CI 0.12-1.05). Conclusion: Consolidation RT could significantly improve outcomes of DLBCL patients who achieved a CR to RCHOP. However, the significance of these results was limited by these retrospective data. Further investigation of the role of consolidation RT in the rituximab era is needed."
systematic-review	AHA444514	Molecular Characteristics and Clinical Significance of 12 Fusion Genes in Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia: A Systematic Review Molecular Characteristics and Clinical Significance of 12 Fusion Genes in Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia: A Systematic Review Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is characterized by the generation of the promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid (RA) receptor α (PML-RARα) fusion gene. PML-RARα is the central leukemia-initiating event in APL and is directly targeted by all-trans-RA (ATRA) as well as arsenic. In classic APL harboring PML-RARα transcripts, more than 90% of patients can achieve complete remission when treated with ATRA combined with arsenic trioxide chemotherapy. In the last 20 years, more than 10 variant fusion genes have been found and identified in APL patients. These variant APL cases present different clinical phenotypes and treatment outcomes. All variant APL cases show a similar breakpoint within the RARα gene, whereas its partner genes are variable. These fusion proteins have the ability to repress rather than activate retinoic targets. These chimeric proteins also possess different molecular characteristics, thereby resulting in variable sensitivities to ATRA and clinical outcomes. In this review, we comprehensively analyze various rearrangements in variant APL cases that have been reported in the literature as well as the molecular characteristics and functions of the fusion proteins derived from different RARα partner genes and their clinical implications.
meta-analysis	AHA445163	"Association between Transfusion Status and Overall Survival in Patients with Myelodysplastic Syndromes: A Systematic Literature Review and Meta-Analysis Association between Transfusion Status and Overall Survival in Patients with Myelodysplastic Syndromes: A Systematic Literature Review and Meta-Analysis Introduction: Multiple studies show that transfusion independence (TI) in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) has a positive impact on overall survival (OS). To assess this, a systematic review and meta-analysis of the association between TI and OS in patients with MDS was conducted (PROSPERO ID: CRD42014007264). Methods: Comprehensive searches of 5 key bibliographic databases were conducted and supplemented with additional search techniques. Included were studies that had recruited adults aged &gt;18 years with MDS and had examined the impact of transfusion status on OS. Results: Fifty-five studies (89 citations) were included. The vast majority reported a statistically significant hazard ratio (HR) for OS in favor of TI patients or in patients who acquired TI after treatment. A random-effects meta-analysis was conducted. Patients classed as TI at baseline showed a 59% decrease in the risk of death compared with transfusion-dependent (TD) patients [HR 0.41; 95% credible interval (CrI) 0.29-0.56], and this effect did not appear to interact significantly with illness severity (interaction coefficient HR 1.38; 95% CrI 0.62-3.41). A meta-analysis of studies where patients acquired TI was not possible, but those studies consistently reported a survival benefit for those who acquired TI. Conclusion: The findings revealed a 59% pooled reduction in mortality among TI patients when compared with TD patients."
case-report	AHA448983	Dasatinib-Induced T-Cell-Mediated Colitis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Dasatinib-Induced T-Cell-Mediated Colitis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Dasatinib is a potent inhibitor of the altered tyrosine kinase activity in disease states associated with BCR/ABL1. This agent has been shown to exhibit broad off-target kinase inhibition and immunomodulating properties. These effects may be responsible for dasatinib's unique side effects including a distinctive form of hemorrhagic colitis. We report a case of hemorrhagic colitis associated with dasatinib use in a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia. Colon biopsies at the time of symptomatic colitis confirmed CD3+CD8+ T cell infiltration. The process rapidly resolved following drug discontinuation, but relapsed when rechallenged with a reduced dose of dasatinib. Colitis did not recur when the patient was treated with an alternative agent. A literature review of prior cases involving dasatinib-induced T-cell mediated colitis provides insight into commonalities that may facilitate the recognition and management of this entity. Most incidences occurred after a 3-month drug exposure and may be accompanied by large granular lymphocytes. The process uniformly resolves within a few days following drug discontinuation and will generally recur in a shorter period of time if the drug is reintroduced. Most patients will require an alternative agent, although select patients could be continued on dasatinib if other options are limited.
systematic-review	AHA449031	"Outcome Comparison of Allogeneic versus Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation in Transformed Low-Grade Lymphoid Malignancies: A Systematic Review and Pooled Analysis of Comparative Studies Outcome Comparison of Allogeneic versus Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation in Transformed Low-Grade Lymphoid Malignancies: A Systematic Review and Pooled Analysis of Comparative Studies Background: Some patients with low-grade lymphoid malignancies develop transformed disease, requiring stem cell transplantation (SCT). SCT outcomes in transformed low-grade lymphoid malignancies may differ from those of nontransformed disease or other aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphomas. We conducted a pooled analysis of the clinical outcomes of allogeneic versus high-dose therapy (HDT) with autologous SCT in adult patients with transformed low-grade lymphoid malignancies. Methods: A PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane search yielded 4 comparative studies reporting allogeneic versus HDT with autologous SCT outcomes in adults (age ≥18) with transformed low-grade lymphoid malignancies, including follicular, chronic/small lymphocytic, and marginal zone lymphoma. Risk ratio (RR) and 95% CI were calculated using random-effects models. Results: Rates for overall survival (OS) were 51.0 versus 69.5% (RR = 1.55, 95% CI 1.19-2.02, p = 0.001), rates of relapse were 37.3 versus 35.3% (RR = 1.04, 95% CI 0.70-1.55, p = 0.84), and rates of transplant-related mortality (TRM) were 33.3 versus 7.2% (RR = 4.52, 95% CI 2.75-7.43, p &lt; 0.00001) for allogeneic versus autologous SCT. Previous rituximab treatment, reduced intensity conditioning regimen prior to SCT, or original pathology had no prognostic impact. Conclusion: HDT followed by autologous SCT was associated with lower TRM and a better OS, but there was no difference in relapse versus allogeneic SCT. Autologous SCT may be the better therapeutic option, considering the second chance of allogeneic SCT in the case of relapse."
meta-analysis	AHA478085	"Microvessel Density as a Surrogate Prognostic Marker in Patients with Multiple Myeloma: A Meta-Analysis Microvessel Density as a Surrogate Prognostic Marker in Patients with Multiple Myeloma: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Bone marrow (BM) angiogenesis is considered a hallmark of multiple myeloma (MM) development and progression, and can be quantified with the use of microvessel density (MVD). The purpose of this study is to provide a review and a meta-analysis of the current literature regarding the prognostic value of MVD in the overall survival (OS) of MM patients. Methods: MEDLINE was screened for studies evaluating the OS of MM patients with regard to their MVD count in BM trephine. The pooled hazard ratio (HR) and its associated 95% confidence interval (CI) among MM patients with a high and low MVD count was the primary end point. Secondary outcomes included odds ratios (OR) for 12-, 36-, and 60-month survival. Results: Ten eligible trials were identified for the analysis of the primary end point and 9 for the secondary end points. Pooled HR for OS was 1.85 (95% CI: 1.25-2.73, p = 0.002). The pooled OR of survival were 1.59 (95% CI: 1.02-2.46, p = 0.04) at 12 months, 2.90 (95% CI: 1.68-5.03, p = 0.0001) at 36 months, and 3.42 (95% CI: 2.41-4.85, p &lt; 0.00001) at 60 months, in favor of the low MVD group. Conclusion: This meta-analysis provides persuasive evidence that MVD has significant impact on the clinical outcome of MM patients."
case-report	AHA491596	"Mediastinal Myeloid Sarcoma with TP53 Mutation Preceding Acute Myeloid Leukemia with a PICALM-MLLT10 Fusion Gene Mediastinal Myeloid Sarcoma with TP53 Mutation Preceding Acute Myeloid Leukemia with a PICALM-MLLT10 Fusion Gene Introduction: Myeloid sarcoma (MS), previously known as granulocytic sarcoma or chloroma, is a rare neoplastic condition defined as a tumor mass consisting of myeloblasts or immature myeloid cells occurring at an extramedullary site. Clinical presentation is diverse and determined by a tumor mass effect or local organ dysfunction. Case Report: We report the case of a 25-year-old previously healthy male with rapidly progressive shortness of breath. A chest CT scan demonstrated a heterogenous anterosuperior mediastinal mass with pleural and pericardial invasion. A diagnosis of MS with both myeloid and lymphoid characteristics was made by pathologic, morphologic, and immunophenotypic investigation. Next generation analysis revealed a pathogenic TP53 mutation (c.1035_1036insCT, p.Glu346Leufs*25). After 4 cycles of chemotherapy only a partial metabolic response and tumor size reduction was obtained. A pretransplant bone marrow biopsy revealed the progression of disease to acute myeloid leukemia. Cytogenetic analysis demonstrated a t(10; 11)(p12;q21). Fluorescence in situ hybridization confirmed the presence of a PICALM-MLLT10 fusion gene. Conclusion: MS with a mediastinal localization is rare and often misdiagnosed as malignant lymphoma. Acute leukemia harboring a PICALM-MLLT10 fusion gene is characterized by a mixed T cell and myeloid phenotype. The rearrangement is a rare recurrent translocation associated with specific clinical features, as illustrated in this case report."
case-report	AHA492024	Spectrum of Ankyrin Mutations in Hereditary Spherocytosis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Spectrum of Ankyrin Mutations in Hereditary Spherocytosis: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Background/Aims: Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is a common pediatric hemolytic anemia caused by congenital red blood cell defects. HS due to ankyrin 1 (ANK1) mutations is the most common type. We explored an ANK1 mutation from an HS patient and reviewed the literature. Methods: We detected the mutation in a Chinese family in which 2 members were diagnosed with HS by next-generation sequencing. The proband was diagnosed with HS in the newborn period, based on clinical manifestations, laboratory data, and family history. The mutation spectrum of the ANK1 gene was summarized based on 85 patients diagnosed with HS carrying ANK1 mutations, and the ANK1 mutation spectrum was summarized and analyzed. Results: We identified a novel mutation affecting ANK1 gene splicing (a splicing mutation) in both the patient and her mother, which is a substitution of T&
case-report	AHA494427	Unique Case of Myeloproliferative Neoplasm with Two Rare Clonal Abnormalities: Rare JAK2 Exon 12 Mutation and Rare e14a3 (b3a3) BCR/ABL Fusion Transcript Unique Case of Myeloproliferative Neoplasm with Two Rare Clonal Abnormalities: Rare JAK2 Exon 12 Mutation and Rare e14a3 (b3a3) BCR/ABL Fusion Transcript Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are clonal disorders divided into Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) or Ph chromosome-negative MPNs. Co-occurrence of these disease entities is very rare and typically involves presence of common p190 or p210 BCR/ABL fusion transcript (responsible for CML) along with JAK2V617F mutation (most common driver mutation in Ph-negative MPNs). Because of the rarity of such cases, it is not clear if the outcomes are any different in these patients. In this article, we report a unique patient with polycythemia vera driven by a rare complex in-frame deletion-insertion mutation in JAK2 exon 12, and CML driven by uncommon p210 e14a3 (b3a3) BCR/ABL fusion transcript. We describe clinical and laboratory features, bone marrow pathology, treatment, and overall outcome.
meta-analysis	AHA494487	"Effectiveness and Safety of Deferasirox in Thalassemia with Iron Overload: A Meta-Analysis Effectiveness and Safety of Deferasirox in Thalassemia with Iron Overload: A Meta-Analysis Deferasirox (DFX) has recently been used to treat thalassemia with iron overload; however, its long-term effectiveness and safety await multi-year studies. In this study, a systematic meta-analysis was performed to assess the effectiveness and safety of DFX in the treatment of thalassemia with iron overload. We performed a systematic electronic literature search for randomized controlled studies of DFX in the Embase, Medline, Cochrane, and Chinese Biomedical Literature (CBM) databases from January 1990 to May 2018. Particular attention was paid to mortality, serum ferritin (SF), liver iron concentration (LIC), myocardial iron concentration, and adverse events (AEs). Six studies comparing DFX with deferoxamine (DFO) and placebo were enrolled. DFX was not better than DFO in lowering SF and LIC, with an exception that high DFX dose (&"
review-article	AJN289864	C-Peptide as a Therapeutic Tool in Diabetic Nephropathy C-Peptide as a Therapeutic Tool in Diabetic Nephropathy Background/Aims: Insulin is synthesised as a pro-hormone with an interconnecting C-peptide, cleaved during post-translational modification. This review discusses growing evidence which indicates that C-peptide is biologically active, benefiting microvascular complications associated with diabetes. Methods: To explore the renoprotective role of C-peptide in diabetic nephropathy (DN), we reviewed the literature using PubMed for English language articles that contained key words related to C-peptide, kidney and DN. Results: Numerous studies have demonstrated that C-peptide ameliorates a number of the structural and functional renal disturbances associated with uncontrolled hyperglycaemia in human and animal models of type 1 diabetes mellitus that lead to the development and progression of nephropathy, including abrogation of glomerular hyperfiltration, reduced microalbuminuria, decreased mesangial expansion and increased endothelial nitric oxide synthase levels. The in vitro exposure of kidney proximal tubular cells to physiological concentrations of C-peptide activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, protein kinase C, elevates intracellular calcium, and stimulates transcription factors NF-ĸB and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ. Conclusion: Burgeoning studies suggest that C-peptide is more than merely a link between the A and B chains of the proinsulin molecule and represents a future therapeutic tool in reducing complications of DN.
review-article	AJN294505	Hepatitis E Virus Infection: A General Review with a Focus on Hemodialysis and Kidney Transplant Patients Hepatitis E Virus Infection: A General Review with a Focus on Hemodialysis and Kidney Transplant Patients Background: Hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection is a self-limited viral disease that causes acute hepatitis epidemics in developing countries. The common route of transmission for HEV is supposedly fecal-oral. Serological evidence may be unexpectedly found in hemodialysis (HD) patients and kidney transplant recipients. Although the route of HEV transmission is not usually determined in HD subjects, this virus seems to be transmitted either directly through HD or nosocomially. In this study, we gathered the published information on HEV infection in HD patients and kidney transplant recipients. Methods: For this review, we collected the relevant articles by searching through Medline and Google Scholar from January 1980 up to September 2009. Results: Some variables including older age, low education, living in rural versus urban areas and the duration of HD seem to be risk factors for HEV infection in HD patients. Compared with non-HD subjects, HEV infection may be specifically associated with poor outcome in HD patients. Specific considerations seem to be required to prevent transmission of HEV to HD patients. Conclusion: More extensive investigations are required to determine the disease burden of HEV infection in HD subjects in countries which experience outbreaks of HEV infection.
systematic-review	AJN296277	Prevention and Treatment of Acute Kidney Injury in Patients Undergoing Cardiac Surgery: A Systematic Review Prevention and Treatment of Acute Kidney Injury in Patients Undergoing Cardiac Surgery: A Systematic Review Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is common in patients undergoing cardiac surgery and is associated with a high rate of death, long-term sequelae and healthcare costs. We conducted a systematic review of randomized controlled trials for strategies to prevent or treat AKI in cardiac surgery. Methods: We screened Medline, Scopus, Cochrane Renal Library, and Google Scholar for randomized controlled trails in cardiac surgery for prevention or treatment of AKI in adults. Results: We identified 70 studies that contained a total of 5,554 participants published until November 2008. Most studies were small in sample size, were single-center, focused on preventive strategies, and displayed wide variation in AKI definitions. Only 26% were assessed to be of high quality according to the Jadad criteria. The types of strategies with possible protective efficacy were dopaminergic agents, vasodilators, anti-inflammatory agents, and pump/perfusion strategies. When analyzed separately, dopamine and N-acetylcysteine did not reduce the risk for AKI. Conclusions: This summary of all the literature on prevention and treatment strategies for AKI in cardiac surgery highlights the need for better information. The results advocate large, good-quality, multicenter studies to determine whether promising interventions reliably reduce rates of acute renal replacement therapy and mortality in the cardiac surgery setting.
systematic-review	AJN328584	Mechanisms of Renal Cell Apoptosis Induced by Cyclosporine A: A Systematic Review of in vitro Studies Mechanisms of Renal Cell Apoptosis Induced by Cyclosporine A: A Systematic Review of in vitro Studies Background:Chronic cyclosporine A (CsA) nephrotoxicity (CCN) is a major cause of chronic renal dysfunction and has no effective clinical interventions yet. Objective: To reveal the mechanisms of renal cell apoptosis in CCN, we analyzed all in vitro studies of such mechanisms. Methods: We collected all in vitro studies about the mechanisms of renal cell apoptosis induced by CsA in Medline (1966 to July 2010), Embase (1980 to July 2010) and ISI (1986 to July 2010), evaluated their quality according to in vitro standards and extracted data following the PICOS principles and synthesized the data. Results: First,CsA could upregulate Fas and Fas-L expression, increase FADD and apoptosis enzymes (caspase-2, -3, -4, -7, -8, -9 and -10) and downregulate the Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL. Second, CsA could induce oxidative stress and damage the antioxidant defense system. Third, CsA could increase the expression of HERP, GRP78 and CHOP. Fourth, CsA could induce renal cell apoptosis and increase their iNOS and p53 expression in cultured cells. Conclusions: At least four pathways are involved in renal cell apoptosis induced by CsA in different cell species. Caspases might be their final common pathway in vitro. They might all provide potential points for interventions, but these need to be confirmed in vivo.
systematic-review	AJN336532	Dialyzer Reuse and Mortality Risk in Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease: A Systematic Review Dialyzer Reuse and Mortality Risk in Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease: A Systematic Review Background and Aim: Robust evidence about dialyzer reuse effects on mortality is not available. Our aim was to summarize the evidence for the effectiveness of dialyzer reuse compared to single use in patients with end-stage renal disease. Methods: We searched MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, SciELO, LILACS, USRDS ADR, universities’ theses databases and annals of congress from major nephrology societies. Reviewers performed the study selection and data extraction independently. We used the GRADE approach to assess the quality of the evidence. Mortality was the primary outcome. Results: A total of 1,190 studies were retrieved, and 14 were included in the review (n = 956,807 patients). The disinfectants used on dialyzer reprocessing were hypochlorite, formaldehyde, glutaraldehyde, and peracetic acid. The evidence available from the studies was of very low quality. Most studies found no differences between groups. In studies with statistically significant differences, these differences were not observed in all groups and they varied by the type of disinfectant, time of observation and treatment unit. Conclusions: No significant differences were identified for the superiority or inferiority of dialyzer reuse versus single use when assessing the mortality of patients with end-stage renal disease. Studies of higher quality, including randomized clinical trials, are required to provide conclusive evidence regarding the effectiveness and safety of dialyzer reuse.
systematic-review	AJN339329	"Short- and Long-Term Effects of Alkali Therapy in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review Short- and Long-Term Effects of Alkali Therapy in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review Background: Clinical practice guidelines recommend alkali therapy in patients with non-dialysis-dependent chronic kidney disease (CKD) and metabolic acidosis to prevent complications from metabolic acidosis. We systematically reviewed the effect of sodium bicarbonate on benefits and harms in patients with CKD. Methods: We searched for randomized controlled trials in MEDLINE (through July 2011), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, ClinicalTrials.gov, and scientific abstracts. We included trials that compared sodium bicarbonate to standard-of-care therapy or placebo that reported on kidney-related outcomes. We performed random-effects model meta-analyses to compute net changes (for continuous variables) and risk ratios (for binary variables). Results: Two short-term (≤7 days) crossover trials and 4 long-term (≥2 months) parallel-design randomized controlled trials met eligibility (312 patients). All 6 trials prescribed sodium bicarbonate in the alkali-treated group. In the long-term studies, alkali therapy was associated with a net decrease in serum creatinine (–0.07 mg/dl, 95% CI –0.09, –0.05; p &lt; 0.001; I2 = 0), a net improvement in GFR (3.2 ml/min/1.73 m2, 95% CI 1.6, 4.7; p &lt; 0.001; I2 = 0), and a lower incidence of dialysis initiation (risk ratio 0.21, 95% CI 0.08, 0.54; p = 0.001; I2 = 0). No benefit was observed on the serum creatinine or GFR in short-term studies. Alkali therapy was not associated with a higher likelihood of initiating or escalating anti-hypertensive medications. Conclusions: Alkali therapy is associated with an improvement in kidney function, which may afford a long-term benefit in slowing the progression of CKD. However, differences in study protocols and small sample sizes preclude definitive conclusions."
systematic-review	AJN345988	Mechanisms of Cyclosporine-Induced Renal Cell Apoptosis: A Systematic Review Mechanisms of Cyclosporine-Induced Renal Cell Apoptosis: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: Chronic cyclosporine A (CsA) nephrotoxicity (CCN) is an important cause of chronic renal dysfunction with no effective clinical intervention. To further elucidate the mechanisms of renal cell apoptosis in CCN, all relevant in vivo studies on this subject were analyzed. Methods: We searched for in vivo studies on the mechanisms of CsA-induced renal cell apoptosis in Medline (1966–July 2010), Embase (1980–July 2010) and ISI (1986–July 2010). The studies were evaluated for their quality according to a set of in vivo standards, data extracted according to PICOS, and then synthesized. Results: Renal cell apoptosis was an important feature of CCN and an important factor of renal dysfunction. First, CsA could upregulate Fas/Fas ligand, downregulate Bcl-2/Bcl-XL, and increase caspase-1 and caspase-3. Second, it could induce oxidative stress and damage the antioxidant defense system. Third, it could increase endoplasmic reticulum stress protein in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Fourth, CsA could impair the urine concentration and decrease the expression of hypertonicity-induced genes. Fifth, CsA-induced renal cell apoptosis was significantly decreased by blocking the angiotensin II type 1 receptor using losartan. Conclusions: The in vivo mechanisms for CCN are more complex than those found in vitro. CsA can induce renal cell apoptosis using five pathways in vivo and activated caspases might be the ultimate intersection of these pathways and the common intracellular pathway mediating apoptosis. These data provide new potential points for intervention and need to be confirmed by further studies.
research-article	AJN348376	Association of Calcium, Phosphate and Parathyroid Hormone with Renal Allograft Function: A Retrospective Cohort Study Association of Calcium, Phosphate and Parathyroid Hormone with Renal Allograft Function: A Retrospective Cohort Study Background: Significant variations in postoperative levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH), calcium and phosphate exist after renal transplantation, but whether they affect allograft function is unknown. We investigated the association between early post-transplant levels of PTH, calcium and phosphate and graft function. Methods: We performed a single-centre cohort study of renal transplant recipients from Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, between April 1997 and March 2007, evaluating the association between plasma calcium, phosphate and PTH 1 month after transplantation and change in epidermal growth factor receptor (eGFR) in the first 12 months after transplantation (estimated using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study equation). Differences in eGFR between 26 and 52 weeks after transplantation were computed using mixed effects linear regression models for repeated measures of eGFR, while adjusting for sociodemographic and biochemical variables. Results: Three hundred and forty-three patients were eligible for study. The mean age (standard deviation) at transplant was 43 years (13 years). Between 30 and 90 days after transplantation, the median (25th-75th percentile) eGFR was 33 (26-50) ml/min/1.73 m2, the mean calcium level was 2.4 (0.17) mmol/l and the mean phosphate level was 0.78 (0.23) mmol/l. There was a significant interaction between calcium and phosphate levels (p = 0.006). In patients with low levels of phosphate, higher levels of calcium were associated with declining eGFR over time. However, in patients with a high phosphate level, higher calcium was associated with improved eGFR. Conclusions: Higher serum calcium in patients with low serum phosphate after transplantation is associated with a decline in graft function during the first year after transplantation. Disorders of mineral metabolism after transplant may represent an important therapeutic target to preserve allograft function.
research-article	AJN348755	"Two Novel Vitamin D Receptor Modulators with Similar Structures Exhibit Different Hypercalcemic Effects in 5/6 Nephrectomized Uremic Rats Two Novel Vitamin D Receptor Modulators with Similar Structures Exhibit Different Hypercalcemic Effects in 5/6 Nephrectomized Uremic Rats Background/Aims: Vitamin D receptor modulators (VDRMs) are indicated for secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Clinical observations demonstrate that VDRM therapy provides cardiovascular (CV) benefit in CKD. Current on-market VDRMs have a narrow therapeutic index at 1- to 4-fold [hypercalcemic toxicity vs. parathyroid hormone (PTH)-suppressing efficacy]. Hypercalcemia leads to the need for frequent drug dose titration and serum calcium (Ca) monitoring. A VDRM with a wider therapeutic index and beneficial CV effects will be clinically useful. Methods: Two structurally similar VDRMs were tested in the 5/6 nephrectomized (NX) rats with elevated PTH, endothelial dysfunction and left ventricular hypertrophy. Results: VS-110 and VS-411 at 0.01-1 μg/kg (i.p. 3 times/week for 2 weeks) suppressed serum PTH effectively. VS-411 raised serum Ca with an 11% increase at 0.01 μg/kg (therapeutic index = ∼1-fold), while VS-110 did not raise serum Ca even at 1 μg/kg (therapeutic index &gt;50-fold). VS-110 improved endothelium-dependent aortic relaxation in a dose-dependent manner and significantly reduced left ventricular fibrosis without affecting serum Ca. VS-411 also exhibited effects on the CV parameters, but was less potent at the high doses with severe hypercalcemia. VS-110 and VS-411 specifically activated the reporter gene via a chimeric receptor containing the VDR ligand binding domain with EC50 &lt;0.1 nM. Conclusions: Structurally similar VDRMs can exhibit distinctly different hypercalcemic effects in 5/6 NX uremic rats. While differences exist for the Ca and CV effects of VS-110 and VS-411, the clinical implications are unclear. VS-110's results are promising but clinical outcome studies need to be performed."
research-article	AJN348803	A Novel Nuclear Factor &
research-article	AJN348805	Ferric Citrate Hydrate, a New Phosphate Binder, Prevents the Complications of Secondary Hyperparathyroidism and Vascular Calcification Ferric Citrate Hydrate, a New Phosphate Binder, Prevents the Complications of Secondary Hyperparathyroidism and Vascular Calcification Background/Aims: Ferric citrate hydrate (JTT-751) is being developed as a treatment for hyperphosphatemia in chronic kidney disease patients, and shows serum phosphorus-reducing effects on hyperphosphatemia in hemodialysis patients. We examined whether JTT-751 could reduce phosphorus absorption in normal rats and prevent the progression of ectopic calcification, secondary hyperparathyroidism and bone abnormalities in chronic renal failure (CRF) rats. Methods: Normal rats were fed a diet containing 0.3, 1 or 3% JTT-751 for 7 days. The effects of JTT-751 on phosphorus absorption were evaluated with fecal and urinary phosphorus excretion. Next, a CRF model simulating hyperphosphatemia was induced by feeding rats a 0.75% adenine diet. After 21 days of starting the adenine diet feeding, 1 or 3% JTT-751 was administered for 35 days by dietary admixture. The serum phosphorus levels and mineral parameters were measured. Calcification in the aorta was examined biochemically and histopathologically. Hyperparathyroidism and bone abnormalities were evaluated by histopathological analysis of the parathyroid and femur, respectively. Results: In normal rats, JTT-751 increased fecal phosphorus excretion and reduced phosphorus absorption and urinary phosphorus excretion. In CRF rats, JTT-751 reduced serum phosphorus levels, the calcium-phosphorus product and calcium content in the aorta. Serum intact parathyroid hormone levels and the incidence and severity of parathyroid hyperplasia were also decreased. JTT-751 reduced femoral bone fibrosis, porosity and osteoid formation. Conclusions: JTT-751 could bind with phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract, increase fecal phosphorus excretion and reduce phosphorus absorption. JTT-751 could prevent the progression of ectopic calcification, secondary hyperparathyroidism and bone abnormalities in rats.
research-article	AJN348806	"Statin Use and Calcific Uremic Arteriolopathy: A Matched Case-Control Study Statin Use and Calcific Uremic Arteriolopathy: A Matched Case-Control Study Background: Calcific uremic arteriolopathy (CUA), also known as calciphylaxis, is characterized by vascular calcification, thrombosis and intense inflammation. Prior research has shown that statins have anticalcification, antithrombotic and antiinflammatory properties; however, the association between statin use and CUA has not been investigated. Methods: This matched case-control study included 62 adult maintenance hemodialysis (HD) patients with biopsy-confirmed CUA diagnosed between the years 2002 and 2011 (cases). All cases were hospitalized at the time of diagnosis. Controls (n = 124) were hospitalized maintenance HD patients without CUA (matched to cases by gender and timing of hospitalization). Univariate and multivariable logistic regression models were applied to compute odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for CUA in statin users, and also to examine previously described associations. -Results: The mean age of cases was 58 years. Most were females (68%), and of white race (64%). Statin use was more common in controls than in cases (39 vs. 19%, p &lt; 0.01). Statin use was associated with lower odds of CUA in unadjusted (OR 0.38, 95% CI 0.18-0.79) and adjusted (OR 0.20, 95% CI 0.05-0.88) analyses. Hypercalcemia (OR 2.25, 95% CI 1.14-4.43), hypoalbuminemia (OR 5.73, 95% CI 2.79-11.77), calcitriol use (OR 5.69, 95% CI 1.02-31.77) and warfarin use (OR 4.30, 95% CI 1.57-11.74) were positively associated with CUA in adjusted analyses whereas paricalcitol and doxercalciferol were not (OR 1.33, 95% CI 0.54-3.27). Conclusion: Statin use may be negatively associated with odds of CUA. Further large prospective studies with attention to potential confounders are needed to confirm these findings."
research-article	AJN348822	"Patients' Preferences Regarding Choice of End-Stage Renal Disease Treatment Options Patients' Preferences Regarding Choice of End-Stage Renal Disease Treatment Options Background: Dialysis registries have reported a low take-up of home treatment. The aim of our study was to report patients' preferred treatment options for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) after information delivery, patients' characteristics by treatment preference, and the reasons for differences between treatment preference and the treatment delivered. Methods: A prospective cohort study on patients seen in our nephrology department between January 2009 and June 2011 included all patients with chronic kidney disease (GFR &lt;20 ml/min/1.73 m2) and incident dialysis patients who received an information program about ESRD treatment options. Results: 228 patients received information delivery and either expressed a preference for a given renal replacement therapy (peritoneal dialysis, PD: 42%; hemodialysis, HD: 33%), remained undecided (20%) or expressed reluctance to undergo renal replacement therapy (5%). Multivariate analysis revealed that compared to HD preference, patients preferring PD were older (OR 1.02, 95% CI 1.0-1.04), had a lower BMI (OR 0.9, 95% CI 0.87-0.98) and were more likely to have been informed before rather than after starting dialysis (OR 3.4, 95% CI 1.5-7.4); home treatment was the main reason given for preferring PD. Undecided patients were mainly women and the majority were eventually treated by HD. Reluctant patients were the oldest (OR 1.12, 95% CI 1.02-1.22) and were rarely treated by dialysis. Only 24% of patients informed before and 8% of patients informed after starting dialysis were ultimately treated with PD. Reasons for a mismatch between dialysis modality preference and treatment delivered were equally distributed between medical and nonmedical. Conclusion: Patients should be systematically informed before starting dialysis, patients' preferences should be taken into account before organizing dialysis and all treatment modalities should be available in all centers."
research-article	AJN349925	Haemodiafiltration Results in Similar Changes in Intracellular Water and Extracellular Water Compared to Cooled Haemodialysis Haemodiafiltration Results in Similar Changes in Intracellular Water and Extracellular Water Compared to Cooled Haemodialysis Background/Aims: Intradialytic hypotension is the most common complication of modern day haemodialysis (HD). Convective modalities, including haemodiafiltration (HDF) are reported to result in greater cardiovascular stability compared to standard HD, which has been suggested to be due to improved solute transport between compartments. We therefore investigated the effect of treatment on body water by bioimpedance. Methods: We measured the change in extracellular water (ECW) and intracellular water (ICW) in 263 outpatients attending for HD using cooled dialysate and 134 patients for HDF. Results: Patient cohorts were matched for demographics, dialysate composition, ultrafiltration rate, and session duration. The fall in systolic blood pressure following HD was -11.8 mm Hg (-25.3 to 2.3) and not different from that following HDF -12 mm Hg (-27 to 6). Similarly there were no differences in pretreatment serum sodium and dialysate sodium gradient [HD 1 mmol/l (-1 to 3) vs. HDF 2 mmol/l (1 to 4)], or change in serum sodium posttreatment [HD 0 mmol/l (-2 to 2) vs. HDF 1 mmol/l (-1 to 3)]. There were no differences in ICW or ECW pretreatment, and following treatment the reduction in ICW and ECW did not differ [ICW HD -3.5% (-5.7 to -1.8) vs. -4.1% (-6.0 to -1.7), ECW HD -7.1% (-9.4 to -4.7) vs. HDF -7.1% (-9.7 to -4.9)]. Conclusion: We were unable to demonstrate any advantage for HDF over HD using cooled dialysate in terms of changes in blood pressure during a treatment session, or differences in the relative changes in ICW or ECW volumes.
research-article	AJN349931	"Magnitude of End-Dialysis Overweight is Associated with All-Cause and Cardiovascular Mortality: A 3-Year Prospective Study Magnitude of End-Dialysis Overweight is Associated with All-Cause and Cardiovascular Mortality: A 3-Year Prospective Study Background: We hypothesized that the difference between the prescribed end-dialysis body weight, defined end-dialysis over-weight (edOW; kg), and the body weight which is actually attained could impact survival in hemodialysis (HD) patients. The aim of this prospective observational study was to evaluate if edOW could influence survival in a cohort of prevalent HD patients, controlled for multiple dialysis and clinical risk factors and followed for 3 years. Methods: One hundred and eighty-two patients (117 men, age 65 ± 13 years) on regular HD treatment for at least 6 months [median 48 months (range: 6-366)] were followed from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010. Eighty-four patients (46%) did not achieve their prescribed dry body weight (dBW); their median edOW was 0.4 kg (range: 0.1-1.4). Ninety-eight died during observation, mainly from cardiovascular reasons (69%). Multivariate Cox regression analysis was utilized to evaluate the effect edOW, ultrafiltration rate (UFR), interdialytic weight gain (IDWG), age, sex, dialytic vintage, cardiovascular disease, antihypertensive therapy, diabetes, duration of HD, dBW, BMI, mean arterial blood pressure, Kt/V, and protein catabolic rate (PCRn) had on mortality. Results: Age (HR: 1.04; CI: 1.03-1.05; p &lt;0.0001), IDWG (HR: 2.62; CI: 2.06-3.34; p &lt; 0.01), UFR (HR: 1.13; CI: 1.09-1.16; p&lt; 0.01), PCRn (HR: 0.02; CI: 0.01-0.04; p &lt;0.001), and edOW (HR: 2.71; CI: 1.95-3.75; p &lt; 0.02) were independently correlated to survival. The relative receiver operating characteristic curve identified a cutoff value of 0.3 kg for edOW in predicting death. Conclusions: High edOW is independently associated with an increased long-term risk of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in HD patients. Better survival was observed in patients with edOW &lt;0.3 kg. For patients with higher edOW, longer or more frequent dialysis sessions should be considered in order to prevent the deleterious consequences of excessive body fluid expansion."
systematic-review	AJN360908	"Rituximab Treatment for Relapsing Minimal Change Disease and Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis: A Systematic Review Rituximab Treatment for Relapsing Minimal Change Disease and Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis: A Systematic Review Background: Minimal change disease (MCD) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) remain a therapeutic challenge, since steroids and other immunosuppressive agents exhibit an unfavorable adverse event spectrum. The aim of this review was to systematically summarize and analyze data from preexisting studies reporting the outcome of rituximab (RTX) treatment in these patients. Methods: Study data on adult patients with either steroid-dependent or frequently relapsing MCD/FSGS were identified by a PubMed and Embase search. The number of relapses was calculated and the use of immunosuppressive co-medication prior to and after RTX treatment was quantified. Results: We identified 14 studies including 86 patients with frequently relapsing and steroid-dependent MCD or FSGS. Treatment with RTX reduced the number of relapses per year from 1.3 (0-9) relapses prior to treatment compared to 0 (0-2) after therapy (p &lt; 0.001). Proteinuria decreased from 2.43 (0-15) g/day to 0 (0-4.89) g/day (p &lt; 0.001), while serum albumin increased from 2.9 (1.2-4.6) at baseline to 4.0 (1.8-5.09) g/l after RTX (p = 0.001). The use of immunosuppression used at the time of RTX administration was also reduced after RTX therapy (p &lt; 0.001). Baseline serum albumin was lower (p = 0.018), whereas the number of immunosuppressants prior to RTX was higher (p = 0.018) in patients with relapse after RTX. Conclusions: The published data suggest that RTX is effective in reducing the number of relapses and sparing immunosuppression in frequently relapsing and steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome due to MCD and FSGS. These promising findings have to be confirmed in controlled and prospective studies."
meta-analysis	AJN366025	Erythropoiesis-Stimulating Agents (ESA) for Preventing the Progression of Chronic Kidney Disease: A Meta-Analysis of 19 Studies Erythropoiesis-Stimulating Agents (ESA) for Preventing the Progression of Chronic Kidney Disease: A Meta-Analysis of 19 Studies Background: The effect of anemia correction on kidney function in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients remains unclear. As 19-40% of patients with CKD receive an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA), this is a potentially important consideration. Summary: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials to January 1, 2014 in adult patients with CKD stages 1 to 4. Selection criteria for studies: randomized controlled trials of at least 2 months duration. Patients were allocated to ESA versus placebo, no treatment, or different ESA doses with the purpose of achieving a higher versus a lower hemoglobin target. The analyzed outcomes were the need for renal replacement therapy, doubling of serum creatinine, change in GFR (ml/min), mortality and withdrawal of treatment due to adverse events. A total of 19 trials (n = 8,129 participants with CKD stage 1-4) were reviewed. There was no difference in the risk of end-stage kidney disease (RR, 0.97 [CI 0.83-1.20], 17 trials, 8,104 participants), change in GFR (Mean Difference [MD] -0.45 [-2.21, 1.31], 9 trials, 1,848 participants) or withdrawal of treatment due to adverse events (RR, 1.18 [CI 0.77-1.81], 10 trials, n = 1,958 participants) for patients at higher hemoglobin (Hb) targets. Furthermore, no statistically significant differences in mortality (Risk Ratio [RR] 1.10 [CI 0.90-1.35], 16 trials, n = 8,082 participants) were observed. Key Messages: There is no evidence that ESA treatment affects renal function in patients with CKD. Use of these agents should not therefore be influenced by considerations about influencing CKD progression.
meta-analysis	AJN367812	"Body Mass Index and Mortality in Kidney Transplant Recipients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Body Mass Index and Mortality in Kidney Transplant Recipients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: A higher body mass index (BMI) seems to be linked to survival advantage in maintenance hemodialysis patients. However, it is uncertain if this ‘obesity survival paradox' is also observed in kidney transplant recipients. Hence, we systematically reviewed the literature on the impact of pre-transplantation BMI on all-cause mortality in this population. Methods: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, CINAHL, and Cochrane CENTRAL for relevant studies up to July 2013. Two investigators independently selected the studies using predefined criteria, abstracted the data from the included studies, and independently assessed each study's quality using the Newcastle-Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale. In addition to the qualitative synthesis, we quantitatively pooled the results of the studies with clinical, methodological, and statistical homogeneity. Results: We screened 7,123 records, from which we included 11 studies (with a total of 305,392 participants) in this systematic review and 4 studies in the meta-analyses. In the only study that included children, obesity was linked to higher mortality in children of 6-12 years old. For adults, our meta-analyses indicated that compared to normal BMI, underweight [Hazard Ratio (HR): 1.09; 95% Confidence Interval (CI): 1.02-1.20], overweight (HR: 1.07; 95% CI: 1.04-1.12), and obese (HR: 1.20; 95% CI: 1.14-1.23) levels of BMI were associated with higher mortality. Conclusion: The presence of the obesity survival paradox is unlikely in kidney transplant recipients since both extremes of pre-transplantation BMI are linked to higher mortality in this population."
meta-analysis	AJN368722	"Intradialytic Exercise in Hemodialysis Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Intradialytic Exercise in Hemodialysis Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background and Objective: Hemodialysis (HD) patients are more inactive, leading to poor functional capacity and quality of life; this may be reversed with intradialytic exercise training. To systematically evaluate the efficacy and safety of intradialytic exercise for HD patients, we conducted a meta-analysis of the published randomized controlled trials. Data Sources and Methods: Medline, Embase, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were systematically searched up to February, 2014. The reference lists of eligible studies and relevant reviews were also checked. Results: 24 studies of 997 patients were included. Compared with control, intradialytic exercise significantly improve Kt/V (SMD = 0.27, 95% CI 0.01-0.53), peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak) (SMD = 0.53, 95% CI 0.30-0.76), and physical performance of physical function of life (SMD = 0.30, 95% CI 0.04-0.55). However, no significant improvements were found in the mental function of life. There was no significant difference with respect to musculoskeletal and cardiovascular complications between the intradialytic exercise groups and control groups. Further subgroup analysis found that, when the trial duration was more than 6 months, the intervention had significant effects on VO2peak (SMD = 0.89, 95% CI 0.56-1.22). However, when the trial duration was less than 6 months, the change of VO2peak was not significant (SMD = 0.19, 95% CI -0.13 to 0.51). Conclusion: Intradialytic exercise can improve Kt/V, VO2peak, and the physical quality of life, and intradialytic exercise is safe for HD patients. Therefore, we put forward the suggestion that clinical guideline be updated to inform clinicians on the benefits of intradialytic exercise on HD patients. i 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel"
systematic-review	AJN375541	The Cost Effectiveness of Erythropoietin-Stimulating Agents for Treating Anemia in Patients on Dialysis: A Systematic Review The Cost Effectiveness of Erythropoietin-Stimulating Agents for Treating Anemia in Patients on Dialysis: A Systematic Review Background: Anemia is a common complication associated with kidney failure and is marked by poor health and increased risk of morbidity and mortality. There are ongoing concerns with the use of Erythropoietin Stimulating Agents (ESAs) to treat anemia in patients with kidney failure on dialysis. Questions as to their benefits, harms and overall effect on quality of life are still relevant today. Our objective was to systematically review studies evaluating the cost-effectiveness of ESAs in patients with kidney failure on dialysis. Methods: We performed a systematic review of studies determining the cost-effectiveness of ESAs in adult patients on dialysis. Databases, including PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, were searched from their establishment until June 2013. Studies that reported an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of hemoglobin correction strategies based on ESA treatments in comparison to red blood cell transfusions, lower hemoglobin targets, or no ESA treatment were included. Results: Seven studies met inclusion criteria. Reported cost/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) ratios ranged from USD 931-677,749/QALY across five studies comparing ESAs to red blood cell transfusions. There was heterogeneity in results when considering higher hemoglobin targets, with studies finding higher targets to be both dominant and dominated. Mortality, hospitalization, and utility estimates were major drivers. Conclusions: There is substantial variability in the estimates of the cost-effectiveness of using ESAs in the dialysis population. New models incorporating recent meta-analyses for estimates of utility, mortality, and hospitalization changes would allow for a more comprehensive answer to this question.
meta-analysis	AJN431337	Acute Kidney Injury after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Acute Kidney Injury after Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The objective of this meta-analysis was to evaluate the risk of acute kidney injury (AKI) in patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Methods: A literature search was performed using MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and clinicaltrials.gov from inception through October, 2014. Studies that reported relative risks, ORs, or hazard ratios comparing the AKI risk in patients who underwent TAVR versus those who underwent surgical aortic valve replacement were included. We performed the pre-specified sensitivity analysis including only propensity score-based studies. Mortality risk was evaluated among the studies that reported AKI outcome. Pooled risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated using a random-effect, generic inverse variance method. Results: Three randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with 1,852 patients and 14 cohort studies with 3,113 patients were analyzed to assess the AKI risk in patients undergoing TAVR. The pooled RRs of AKI in patients undergoing TAVR were 0.65 (95% CI 0.36-1.15, I2 = 75%) in the analysis of RCTs and propensity score-based studies and 0.76 (95% CI 0.44-1.34, I2 = 79%) in the analysis of observational studies. Sensitivity analysis in RCTs and propensity score-based studies using a standard AKI definition demonstrated a significant association between TAVR and lower AKI risk (RR 0.35, 95% CI 0.25-0.50, I2 = 0%). Our meta-analyses of RCTs and propensity score-based studies did not find associations between TAVR and reduced risks of severe AKI requiring dialysis (RR 0.82, 95% CI 0.38-1.79, I2 = 63%). Conclusions: Our meta-analysis demonstrates an association between TAVR and lower AKI risk.
meta-analysis	AJN440986	"Intervention Associated Acute Kidney Injury and Long-Term Cardiovascular Outcomes Intervention Associated Acute Kidney Injury and Long-Term Cardiovascular Outcomes Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) has been associated with all-cause short- and long-term mortality. However, its association with cardiovascular (CV) events remains unclear. We sought to investigate this in patients undergoing open (OAR) or endovascular (EVAR) abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, as they are likely to develop both AKI and CV morbidity. A meta-analysis was subsequently performed to confirm this in other CV-interventions. Methods: AKI-incidence was assessed in a multicentre-cohort of 1,068 patients undergoing EVAR (947 individuals) or OAR electively using the ‘Acute Kidney Injury Network' criteria. A composite-endpoint was used, consisting of non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, vascular event, hospitalisation due to heart failure and CV death. A systematic literature review identified studies reporting AKI-incidence and CV events. Risk ratios (RRs) at 1 and 5 years were combined using meta-analysis. Results: During a median follow-up of 62 months (range 11-121), AKI was associated with CV events on adjusted (for CV risk-factors) analyses (Incidence 36% of EVAR, 32% of OAR patients; hazard ratio 1.73, 95% CI 1.06-3.39, p = 0.03) for the overall population. In the meta-analysis, 7 studies reported incidence of MI on 23,936 patients 1-year after coronary intervention (PCI) with a pooled RR of 1.76 (95% CI 1.45-2.83, p &lt; 0.001); at 2 years, 3 studies reported MI incidence on 17,773 patients after PCI with a pooled RR of 1.34 (95% CI 1.10-1.63, p = 0.003). MI-incidence was reported 5 years after cardiac surgery by 3 studies (33,701 patients) with a pooled RR of 1.60 (95% CI 1.43-1.81). Conclusion: AKI is associated with long-term CV events after surgery or endovascular intervention."
meta-analysis	AJN446354	"A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Kidney and Pregnancy Outcomes in IgA Nephropathy A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Kidney and Pregnancy Outcomes in IgA Nephropathy Background: The outcomes of pregnancy in immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) remain controversial. We sought to evaluate the effect of pregnancy on the progression of IgAN as well as the impact of IgAN on pregnancy outcomes. Methods: We systematically searched MEDLINE, Embase for cohort or case-control studies. OR reductions were calculated with a random-effects model, and kidney outcomes and adverse pregnancy events were analyzed. Results: Our literature search returned 652 relevant articles; 4 studies were included, providing data of 376 pregnancies in 273 patients with IgAN and that of 241 IgAN who did not become pregnant. Four hundred sixty seven patients with chronic kidney disease stages 1-2 were included. Pregnancy in patients with IgAN did not increase the risk of adverse renal events including doubling of serum creatinine, 50% decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and end-stage kidney disease (OR 0.97, 95% CI 0.55-1.70; p = 0.90; I2 = 0.0%, p = 0.79). There was no significant difference in the change in estimated GFR at the end of follow-up in the pregnant and non-pregnant groups (weighted mean difference 0.1 ml/min/1.73 m2 (95% CI -4.85 to 5.04 ml/min/1.73 m2), p = 0.97; I2 = 0%, p = 0.95). Women with IgAN had high rates of infant loss (12.2, 7.4-19.4%), preterm delivery (8.5, 5.9-12.1%), low birth weight (9.5, 6.7-13.3%), and preeclampsia/severe preeclampsia (7.3, 4.9-10.6%). Conclusions: Pregnancy in IgAN patients with preserved kidney function did not accelerate deterioration of renal function. But pregnant women with IgAN are at higher risk of pregnancy complications."
systematic-review	AJN446847	"Progressive Resistance Training in End-Stage Renal Disease: Systematic Review Progressive Resistance Training in End-Stage Renal Disease: Systematic Review Background: This systematic review provides an overview of the extant literature on progressive resistance training (PRT) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and outlines recommendations for future trials. Methods: A systematic review of all published literature evaluating the chronic (&gt;6 weeks) application of PRT in patients with ESRD using electronic databases. Results: The search yielded 16 clinical trials, including 11 randomized controlled trials (RCT), 4 uncontrolled trials and one trial involving a within-subjects control period plus RCT. RCT quality, assessed via the CONSORT statement, ranged from low (4/10) to high (10/10) with a mean score of 7.3/10; 7/11 RCT had a quality score ≥7.5. All trials evaluated chronic adaptation to PRT across a range of important outcomes. PRT can induce muscle hypertrophy and improve aspects of physical functioning and health-related quality of life in ESRD. There is preliminary evidence that PRT may reduce protein-energy malnutrition and cardiovascular disease risk factors, including C-reactive protein, total cholesterol, triglyceride, and measures of insulin resistance in patients with or at-risk of comorbid type 2 diabetes. The evidence base for PRT adapting some of the endpoints investigated to date remains inconsistent (e.g. physical performance tests, obesity outcomes), and many other pertinent clinical outcomes remain to be investigated. Conclusion: RCT are required to investigate a range of novel research questions related to the benefits and application of PRT in this cohort and its patient subgroups (e.g. diabetes, depression, dyslipidemia, etc.). Future studies must be of high methodological quality to inform clinical practice guidelines."
meta-analysis	AJN449020	"Bioavailability, Efficacy and Safety of Generic Immunosuppressive Drugs for Kidney Transplantation: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Bioavailability, Efficacy and Safety of Generic Immunosuppressive Drugs for Kidney Transplantation: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Concerns exist over the extrapolation of bioavailability studies of generic immunosuppressive drugs in healthy volunteers, regarding their efficacy and safety in kidney transplant recipients. We conducted a meta-analysis of trials examining the bioavailability of generic (test) immunosuppressive drugs relative to their brand (reference) counterparts in healthy volunteers, based on the US Food and Drug Administration requirements for approval of generics, and their efficacy and safety in kidney transplant recipients. Methods: Eligible studies were identified in PubMed, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Scopus, ClinicalTrials.gov, and conference abstracts. Results: Twenty crossover trials of healthy volunteers (n = 641) and 6 parallel-arm randomized controlled trials of kidney transplant recipients (n = 594) were identified. The 90% CI of the pooled test-to-reference drug ratio for maximum or peak plasma concentration (Cmax) and area under the plasma concentration time-curve from time 0 to time of last determinable concentration (AUC(0-t)) fell within the required range (0.80-1.25) for cyclosporine (Cmax 0.91; 90% CI 0.86-0.95; and AUC(0-t) 0.97; 90% CI 0.94-1.00), tacrolimus (Cmax 1.17; 90% CI 1.09-1.24; and AUC(0-t) 1.00; 90% CI 0.97-1.03) and mycophenolate mofetil (Cmax 0.98; 90% CI 0.96-1.01; and AUC(0-t) 1.00; 90% CI 0.99-1.01). In subgroup analyses, some generic cyclosporine formulations did not meet criteria for bioequivalence. No significant differences were observed in the time to maximum plasma concentration and terminal plasma half-life between generic and brand drugs. In parallel-arm trials, generic cyclosporine was non-inferior to brand counterpart in terms of acute allograft rejection, infections, and death. Conclusions: Not all generic immunosuppressive drugs have similar relative bioavailability to their brand name counterparts. Evidence on their efficacy and safety is inconclusive. Tighter regulatory requirement for approval of generic drugs with narrow therapeutic index is needed."
review-article	AJN479479	Current State and Future Trends to Optimize the Care of African Americans with End-Stage Renal Disease Current State and Future Trends to Optimize the Care of African Americans with End-Stage Renal Disease Background: Chronic kidney disease is a progressive disease, which terminates in end-stage renal diseases (ESRD) that requires either dialysis or kidney transplantation for the patient to survive. There is an alarming trend in the disparities of ESRD in African Americans (AAs). Currently, AAs represent more than 30% of incident ESRD cases, yet they constitute 15% of the overall US population. Despite the reductions in mortality, increases in access to patient-centered home dialysis and preemptive kidney transplantation for the overall US ESRD population over the last decade, disparities in the care of AAs with ESRD remain largely unaffected. Summary: This review discusses patient-, community-, and practitioner-related factors that contribute to disparities in ESRD care for AAs. In particular, the review addresses issues related to end-of-life support, the importance of Apolipoprotein-1 gene variants, and the advent of pharmacogenomics toward achieving precision care. The need for accessible clinical intelligence for the ESRD population is discussed. Several interventions and a call to action to address the disparities are presented. Key Messages: Significant disparities in ESRD care exist for AAs. Strategies to enhance patient engagement, education, accountable partnerships, and clinical intelligence may reduce these disparities.
systematic-review	AJN479480	"Health Disparities in Kidney Transplantation for African Americans Health Disparities in Kidney Transplantation for African Americans Background: The persistent challenges of bridging healthcare disparities for African Americans (AAs) in need of kidney transplantation continue to be unresolved at the national level. This healthcare disparity is multifactorial: stemming from limited kidney donors suitable for AAs; inconsistent care coordination and suboptimal risk factor control; social determinants, low socioeconomic status, reduced access to care; and mistrust of clinicians and the healthcare system. Summary: There are numerous opportunities to significantly lessen the disparities in kidney transplantation for AAs through the following measures: the adoption of new care and patient engagement models that include education, enhanced practice-level cultural sensitivity, and timely referral as well as increased research on the impact of the environment on genetic risk, and implementation of new transplantation-related policies. Key Messages: This systematic review describes pretransplant concerns related to access to kidney transplantation, posttransplant complications, and policy interventions to address the challenging issues associated with kidney transplantation in AAs."
review-article	AJN479481	Current State and Future Trends to Optimize the Care of Chronic Kidney Disease in African Americans Current State and Future Trends to Optimize the Care of Chronic Kidney Disease in African Americans Background: African Americans (AAs) suffer the widest gaps in chronic kidney disease (CKD) outcomes compared to Caucasian Americans (CAs) and this is because of the disparities that exist in both health and healthcare. In fact, the prevalence of CKD is 3.5 times higher in AAs compared to CAs. The disparities exist at all stages of CKD. Importantly, AAs are 10 times more likely to develop hypertension-related kidney failure and 3 times more likely to progress to kidney failure compared to CAs. Summary: Several factors contribute to these disparities including genetic and social determinants, late referrals, poor care coordination, medication adherence, and low recruitment in clinical trials. Key Messages: The development and implementation of CKD-related evidence-based approaches, such as clinical and social determinant assessment tools for medical interventions, more widespread outreach programs, strategies to improve medication adherence, safe and effective pharmacological treatments to control or eliminate CKD, as well as the use of health information technology, and patient-engagement programs for improved CKD outcomes may help to positively impact these disparities among AAs
research-article	AJN493550	Itraconazole Attenuates Peritoneal Fibrosis Through Its Effect on the Sonic Hedgehog Signaling Pathway in Mice Itraconazole Attenuates Peritoneal Fibrosis Through Its Effect on the Sonic Hedgehog Signaling Pathway in Mice Background: Peritoneal fibrosis is a devastating complication of peritoneal dialysis. However, its precise mechanism is unclear, and specific treatments have not yet been established. Recent evidence suggests that the sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling pathway is involved in tissue fibrogenesis. Drugs that inhibit this pathway are emerging in the field of anti-fibrosis therapy. Itraconazole, an anti-fungal agent, was also recently recognized as an inhibitor of the SHH signaling pathway. In this study, we used a mouse model to investigate whether the SHH signaling pathway is involved in the development of peritoneal fibrosis and the effects of itraconazole on peritoneal fibrosis. Methods: Peritoneal fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal (IP) injection of 0.1% chlorhexidine gluconate (CG) solution every other day for 4 weeks, with or without itraconazole treatment (20 mg/kg, IP injection on a daily basis). Male C57BL/6 mice were divided into 4 groups: saline group, saline plus itraconazole group, CG group, and CG plus itraconazole group. Isotonic saline was administered intraperitoneally to the control group. The peritoneal tissues were evaluated for histological changes, expression of fibrosis markers, and the main components of the SHH signaling pathway. Results: Peritoneal thickening was evident in the CG group and was significantly decreased by itraconazole administration (80.4 ± 7.7 vs. 28.2 ± 3.8 µm, p &
research-article	AJN494338	Effects of L-Carnitine on Mineral Metabolism in the Multicentre, Randomized, Double Blind, Placebo-Controlled CARNIDIAL Trial Effects of L-Carnitine on Mineral Metabolism in the Multicentre, Randomized, Double Blind, Placebo-Controlled CARNIDIAL Trial Background: The use of L-carnitine has been proposed in haemodialysis (HD) when deficiency is present to improve anaemia resistant to erythropoietin stimulating agent, intradialytic hypotension or cardiac failure. We tested the effects of L-carnitine supplementation on parameters of chronic kidney disease-mineral bone disorder. Methods: CARNIDIAL was a randomized, double-blinded trial having included 92 incident HD subjects for a 1-year period to receive L-carnitine versus placebo. Determinant factors of C-terminal fibroblast growth factor 23 (cFGF23) and intact FGF23 were studied including Klotho level. The L-carnitine effect on mineral metabolism was analyzed between groups by mixed linear models for repeated measurements. Results: Klotho was below the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) in 55% of the 163 samples. In multivariate analysis, cFGF23 was positively correlated with calcium and phosphate and was higher in subjects having Klotho &
research-article	AJN495353	Trends in Opioid Prescribing Among Hemodialysis Patients, 2007–2014 Trends in Opioid Prescribing Among Hemodialysis Patients, 2007–2014 Background: Hemodialysis (HD) patients frequently experience pain. Previous studies of HD patients suggest increased opioid prescribing through 2010. It remains unclear if this trend continued after 2010 or declined with national trends. Methods: Longitudinal cohort study of 484,745 HD patients in the United States Renal Data System/Medicare data. We used Poisson/negative binomial regression to estimate annual incidence rates of opioid prescribing between 2007 and 2014. We compared prescribing rates with the general US population using IQVIA’s National Prescription Audit data. Outcomes included the following: percent of HD patients receiving an opioid prescription, rate of opioid prescriptions, quantity, days supply, morphine milligram equivalents (MME) dispensed per 100 person-days, and prescriptions per person. Results: In 2007, 62.4% of HD patients received an opioid prescription. This increased to 63.2% in 2010 then declined to 53.7% by 2014. Opioid quantity peaked in 2011 at 73.5 pills per 100 person-days and declined to 62.6 pills per 100 person-days in 2014. MME peaked between 2010 and 2012 then declined through 2014. In 2014, MME rates were 1.8-fold higher among non-Hispanic patients and 1.6-fold higher among low-income patients. HD patients received 3.2-fold more opioid prescriptions per person compared to the general US population and were primarily prescribed oxycodone and hydrocodone. Between 2012 and 2014, HD patients experienced greater declines in opioid prescriptions per person (18.2%) compared to the general US population (7.1%). Conclusion: Opioid prescribing among HD patients declined between 2012 and 2014. However, HD patients continue receiving substantially more opioids than the general US population.
review-article	ANF278752	Evaluation clinique de la dénutrition en pédiatrie Evaluation clinique de la dénutrition en pédiatrie La recherche et l’évaluation du risque nutritionnel devraient faire partie intégrante de l’évaluation clinique. Les objectifs d’une telle évaluation sont de déterminer le risque ou la présence d’une dénutrition et de proposer des directives pour un traitement à court et long terme. Le statut nutritionnel est évalué par une approche simple et principalement clinique basée sur les antécédents médicaux, l’examen clinique, les mesures anthropométriques, la consommation alimentaire, la composition corporelle et des paramètres biologiques. L’évaluation du statut nutritionnel devrait débuter par une étude des antécédents médicaux et un examen clinique associés à une évaluation de la consommation alimentaire. Des ingesta inadaptés, une diminution de l’absorption, des pertes excessives, une mauvaise utilisation des nutriments ou une augmentation des besoins sont autant de facteurs permettant de supposer qu’un enfant présente un risque nutritionnel. La croissance est le meilleur indicateur du statut nutritionnel. L’analyse de la croissance (gain pondéral et vitesse de croissance) en utilisant les courbes de croissance demeure l’outil le plus simple pour évaluer les changements du statut nutritionnel. Des mesures anthropométriques peuvent aussi être utilisées: indice de masse corporelle, pli cutané et circonférence brachiale. Plusieurs classifications sont utilisées pour définir la dénutrition, mais aucune n’a été correctement validée chez les enfants. De nos jours, il est rare qu’une évaluation nutritionnelle soit systématiquement réalisée chez l’enfant par manque de paramètres simples et validés. De tels outils de dépistage doivent être développés et validés dans différentes situations en pédiatrie.
review-article	ANF278753	Dénutrition dans les pays développés Dénutrition dans les pays développés La dénutrition est un problème fréquent chez les patients hospitalisés dans les sociétés développées. Mais même si c’est un facteur de complication, elle restera ignorée tant qu’une évaluation systématique formalisée ne sera pas mise en place. L’équipe transversal de nutrition joue donc un rôle majeur dans la formation du personnel hospitalier à l’importance de la nutrition chez tous les patients, et dans une prise en charge nutritionnelle efficace et sûre. Les organisations de santé ont la responsabilité de rendre prioritaire la prise en charge nutritionnelle. Cette dernière sera efficace à l’hôpital si elle est la résultante d’un travail pluridisciplinaire, flexible, et d’une bonne communication.
review-article	ANF278754	"La dénutrition dans les pays en voie de développement – des aspects évolutifs La dénutrition dans les pays en voie de développement – des aspects évolutifs La malnutrition est la conséquence des troubles liés à une suralimentation ou à une dénutrition. Les pays en développement sont caractérisés par une pauvreté généralisée due à de faibles ressources économiques ou à une distribution inéquitable des richesses dans la société. Les états de dénutrition de la population (retard pondérale et retard de croissance) et la gestion des cas sévères nécessitant une nutrition clinique à l’hôpital, ont longtemps été les préoccupations prioritaires des pays en voie de développement. A présent, le processus de transition nutritionnelle a modifié cette situation, avec un double fardeau de dénutrition et de suralimentation à prendre en considération au sein de la population et dans les hôpitaux. Alors que la dénutrition est en déclin, la croissance démographique entraîne une augmentation mécanique du nombre d’enfants sous-alimentés dans le monde. Ainsi, sans qu’il y ait de nouveaux événements, les carences en vitamine A, en iode, en fer, en zinc, en vitamine D et en vitamine B12 sont à nouveau au centre de l’attention de la santé publique. En outre, les taux de surcharge pondérale et d’obésité sont également en hausse dans certaines sous-populations des pays en développement, et le syndrome métabolique est en train de s’installer dans les populations à faibles revenus. Il est donc important que les concepts et les priorités des pays en voie de développement soient continuellement mis à jour; c’est ce qu’essaie de proposer cet article, afin de ne pas se baser sur les constats des dernières décennies et créer des mythes qui minimisent l’évolution contemporaine de la malnutrition dans le monde."
review-article	ANF278755	Prise en charge et stratégies thérapeutiques de la dénutrition Prise en charge et stratégies thérapeutiques de la dénutrition La dénutrition hospitalière reste un problème répandu dans les hôpitaux européens, affectant 20 à 40% des patients adultes et enfants. Associée à une maladie sous-jacente, la dénutrition altère les fonctions immunitaires et musculaires, retarde la cicatrisation, et elle est à l’origine de dysfonctionnements intestinaux et, par conséquent, augmente les risques de complications graves et réduit la qualité de vie. Idéalement, le rôle d’un support nutritionnel est de prévenir la dénutrition et, s’il était existant auparavant, de restaurer un statut nutritionnel normal, en évitant ainsi les complications nutritionnelles. Il peut également promouvoir un comportement alimentaire adapté. Cet article vise à discuter comment atteindre ces objectifs chez les patients pédiatriques et à présenter les différentes prises en charge nutritionnelles possibles. Le choix du traitement dépend de la maladie sous-jacente, de l’âge du patient, de son statut gastro-intestinal, des possibilités d’une alimentation orale, des coûts et des habitudes alimentaires de la famille. Au regard de tous ces paramètres, et particulièrement des besoins nutritionnels du patients et de son statut nutritionnel au moment du traitement, l’intensité de la prise en charge nutritionnelle doit évoluer par étapes, en commençant par des conseils diététiques, puis en évoluant vers la nutrition entérale et parentérale si nécessaire. Lorsque l’état clinique ne permet pas une prise orale, la nutrition entérale doit être le traitement de première intention quand le tractus gastro-intestinal est fonctionnel. La nutrition parentérale est réservée aux enfants avec un intestin inexistant, inaccessible ou dysfonctionnel. Dans ces conditions cliniques, la nutrition parentérale est indispensable. Concernant les procédures de prises en charge nutritionnelles, la vigilance est particulièrement requise pour éviter un syndrome de renutrition chez les enfants sévèrement dénutris. C’est dans les établissements où il y a une équipe transversale de nutrition que les objectifs du traitement sont les mieux atteints, avec un rapport coût-bénéfice optimal. Une telle équipe est généralement composée d’un pédiatre ayant une expertise en nutrition clinique, d’une infirmière, d’un diététicien ou nutritionniste et, idéalement, d’un pharmacien.
systematic-review	ANM321527	Nutrition Transition and Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors in Middle East and North Africa Countries: Reviewing the Evidence Nutrition Transition and Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors in Middle East and North Africa Countries: Reviewing the Evidence Aim: To examine the burden of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors in Middle East and North Africa countries and their associations with dietary behaviors as nutrition transition is unfolding in the region. Data: Data on CVD risk factors were collected from scholarly papers and a systematic review of published articles was performed. Dietary patterns were derived from the WHO Food and Agriculture Organization Statistical Databases. Results: Wide variations exist across countries in the prevalence of CVD risk factors, namely obesity, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking and physical inactivity, with some countries showing high values of certain factors which approach those observed in the developed world. In particular, obesity prevalence rates have reached alarming levels, particularly among women in the oil-rich countries (over 40%), making it the most pressing health concern in the region. Trends in the dietary pattern illustrated a consistent rise in total energy supply by approximately 730 kcal per capita per day between 1970 and 2005. Dietary patterns showed an increased consumption of fat and animal protein and a decreased intake of carbohydrates, particularly whole grain cereals, and fresh fruits and vegetables. Conclusion: Regional differences were attributed to differences in lifestyle, occupation and a shift from traditional food habits. Our understanding of the CVD disparities across various geographic regions is key to our effort in planning relevant intervention programs. Public health efforts should focus on obesity, physical inactivity and unhealthy dietary practices. The success of these interventions depends on governmental commitment, multisectoral partnership and a consideration of the sociocultural norms of the target population.
systematic-review	ANM332914	Role of Nutritional Status in Predicting the Length of Stay in Cancer: A Systematic Review of the Epidemiological Literature Role of Nutritional Status in Predicting the Length of Stay in Cancer: A Systematic Review of the Epidemiological Literature Background: Length of stay (LOS) has been used as a surrogate marker for patients’ well-being during hospital treatment. We systematically reviewed all pertinent literature on the role of nutritional status in predicting LOS in cancer. Methods: A systematic search of human studies published in English was conducted using the MEDLINE data base (all articles published as of December 2010). We searched using the terms ‘nutritional status’ and ‘nutritional assessment’ and ‘nutritional screening’ and ‘malnutrition’ in combination with the following terms: length of stay, length of hospital stay, duration of stay, and duration of hospitalization together with ‘cancer’ or ‘oncology’. Results: The MEDLINE search identified a total of 149 articles, of which only 21 met the selection criteria. Of the 21 studies, 10 studies investigated gastrointestinal cancer patients, 4 gynecological cancer, and 7 heterogeneous cancer. Eight studies used subjective global assessment (SGA) or patient-generated SGA (PG-SGA), 9 used serum albumin and/or BMI, and 4 used other methods of nutritional assessment. Conclusions: Validated nutritional tools such as SGA/PG-SGA are better predictors of LOS in gastrointestinal cancers requiring surgery than in nonsurgical gastrointestinal cancer patients. Correcting malnutrition may decrease the LOS and perhaps even lower the rate of hospital readmissions in this population.
systematic-review	ANM334490	The Effect of Iron on Cognitive Development and Function in Infants, Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review The Effect of Iron on Cognitive Development and Function in Infants, Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review A systematic review was conducted to summarize the evidence currently available from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) concerning the effect of iron intake of infants, children and adolescents on measures of cognitive development and function. The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE and Embase were searched up to and including February 2010. Studies were also identified by checking the bibliographies of the articles retrieved. All RCTs with an adequate control group in which iron supply was provided by natural food sources, fortified foods, formula or supplements to infants, children or adolescents until the age of 18 years were considered for inclusion. No language restrictions were applied. Fourteen studies met the selection criteria. Twelve out of these 14 studies had a high or moderate risk of bias. A large degree of heterogeneity of study populations, iron dosages and outcome measures precluded performing a quantitative meta-analysis. Overall, the studies suggest a modest positive effect of iron supplementation on cognition and psychomotor outcomes in anemic infants and children after supplementation periods of at least 2 months of duration.
systematic-review	ANM338339	The Role of Systematic Data Reviews in Safety Assessment of Infant Nutrition The Role of Systematic Data Reviews in Safety Assessment of Infant Nutrition To make informed, evidence-based decisions regarding whether a given intervention is necessary, information about its benefits as well as harms is needed. Systematic reviews are always at the top of the evidence hierarchy. In general, the methodology for conducting systematic reviews of benefits and safety/harms overlaps. While systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are sufficient for providing information regarding the efficacy and short-term safety aspects of these trials, they may be insufficient for providing adequate information about long-term safety and consequences. To adequately address harms, systematic reviews should include evidence from both RCTs and non-RCTs. The inclusion of the latter is to be considered particularly for addressing rare adverse effects, long-term adverse effects, or outcomes that were unknown at the time the RCTs were performed.
systematic-review	ANM338965	Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials: Fiber Supplements for Abdominal Pain-Related Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders in Childhood Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials: Fiber Supplements for Abdominal Pain-Related Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders in Childhood Background: A lack of safe and reliable treatments for abdominal pain-related functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) has prompted interest in new therapies. Aim: To systematically evaluate the effect of dietary fibers for treating abdominal pain-related FGIDs in children. Methods: In December 2011, MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating fiber supplementation in children with FGIDs. Results: Only 3 RCTs were identified, which enrolled a total of 167 children and adolescents (5–17 years old) with recurrent abdominal pain. Only 1 study used the Rome III criteria. Patients were supplemented with different dietary fiber types for 4–6 weeks. The use of dietary fibers did not influence the proportion of responders to treatment, and improvement did not occur in reported clinically relevant outcomes such as no pain or a significant decrease in pain intensity (risk ratio 1.17, 95% confidence interval 0.75–1.81). Conclusion: There is no evidence that supplementation with fiber as a dietary manipulation may be useful for treating children with FGIDs. However, one should not overlook the fact that the main limitation for recommendation of the routine fiber use in clinical practice derives from the weak quality and paucity of available studies.
systematic-review	ANM342079	Probiotic Mechanisms of Action Probiotic Mechanisms of Action Probiotics are live microorganisms that provide health benefits to the host when ingested in adequate amounts. The strains most frequently used as probiotics include lactic acid bacteria and bifidobacteria. Probiotics have demonstrated significant potential as therapeutic options for a variety of diseases, but the mechanisms responsible for these effects have not been fully elucidated yet. Several important mechanisms underlying the antagonistic effects of probiotics on various microorganisms include the following: modification of the gut microbiota, competitive adherence to the mucosa and epithelium, strengthening of the gut epithelial barrier and modulation of the immune system to convey an advantage to the host. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that probiotics communicate with the host by pattern recognition receptors, such as toll-like receptors and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing protein-like receptors, which modulate key signaling pathways, such as nuclear factor-ĸB and mitogen-activated protein kinase, to enhance or suppress activation and influence downstream pathways. This recognition is crucial for eliciting measured antimicrobial responses with minimal inflammatory tissue damage. A clear understanding of these mechanisms will allow for appropriate probiotic strain selection for specific applications and may uncover novel probiotic functions. The goal of this systematic review was to explore probiotic modes of action focusing on how gut microbes influence the host.
systematic-review	ANM346968	Systematic Review on Daily Vitamin B12 Losses and Bioavailability for Deriving Recommendations on Vitamin B12 Intake with the Factorial Approach Systematic Review on Daily Vitamin B12 Losses and Bioavailability for Deriving Recommendations on Vitamin B12 Intake with the Factorial Approach Aims: To systematically review the literature on daily losses and bioavailability of vitamin B12. These estimates could be used for deriving recommendations on vitamin B12 intake for adults and elderly. Methods: We identified publications on daily vitamin B12 losses (July 2011) and publications on the bioavailability of vitamin B12 from foods or diets (June 2010) in MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library. Results: A pooled analysis of five studies (52 subjects) showed that 0.13 ± 0.03% of the total body store is lost per day. Absorption of vitamin B12 ranged from 4.5 (dose of 38 µg from consumption of liver) to 83% (dose of 3.0 µg from consumption of mutton meat). Data from eight studies including 83 subjects suggested that the amount of vitamin B12 absorbed from food (Ai) increased with increasing doses of vitamin B12 (Di) as described by the equation: ln(Ai) = 0.7694 * ln(Di) - 0.9614. Conclusion: Daily vitamin B12 losses in apparently healthy adults and elderly probably range from 1.4 to 5.1 µg. Vitamin B12 intakes needed to compensate for these losses seem to range from 3.8 to 20.7 µg. More evidence is needed on the relationships between biochemical markers of vitamin B12 status, vitamin B12 body store and long-term health outcomes to evaluate whether current recommendations on vitamin B12 intake (1.4-3 µg) need to be changed.
systematic-review	ANM348262	"Systematic Review of Zinc Fortification Trials Systematic Review of Zinc Fortification Trials Zinc is one of the essential trace elements required by the human body as it is present in more than a hundred specific enzymes and serves as an important structural ion in transcription factors. Around one third of the world population lives in countries with a high prevalence of zinc deficiency. Food fortification with zinc seems to be an attractive public health strategy and a number of programs have been initiated, especially in developing countries. We conducted a systematic review to assess the efficacy of zinc fortification. A total of 11 studies with 771 participants were included in our analysis. Zinc fortification was associated with significant improvements in plasma zinc concentrations [standard mean difference (SMD) 1.28, 95% CI 0.56, 2.01] which is a functional indicator of zinc status. Significant improvement was observed for height velocity (SMD 0.52, 95% CI 0.01, 1.04); however, this finding was weak and based on a restricted analysis. Further subgroup analysis showed significant improvement in height velocity among very-low-birth-weight infants (SMD 0.70, 95% CI 0.02, 1.37), while for healthy newborns, the impact was insignificant. Zinc fortification had insignificant impacts on serum alkaline levels, serum copper levels, hemoglobin and weight gain. Although the findings highlight that zinc fortification is associated with an increased serum concentration of the micronutrient, overall evidence of the effectiveness of this approach is limited. Data on pregnant and lactating women is scarce. Large-scale fortification programs with robust impact assessment should be initiated to cover larger populations in all age groups. Mass fortification of zinc may be a cost-effective strategy to overcome zinc deficiency."
systematic-review	ANM350312	Effects of Inulin-Type Fructans on Appetite, Energy Intake, and Body Weight in Children and Adults: Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Effects of Inulin-Type Fructans on Appetite, Energy Intake, and Body Weight in Children and Adults: Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Aim: To systematically evaluate the effects of inulin-type fructan (ITF) supplementation on appetite, energy intake, and body weight (BW) in children and adults. Methods: The MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library databases were searched up to December 2012 for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared the effects of supplementation with well-defined ITF with placebo or no intervention. Results: For the pediatric population, 4 RCTs (n = 232) met the inclusion criteria. In infants, very limited evidence (1 RCT, n = 62) showed no effect of ITF supplementation on energy intake and BW. One RCT involving 97 nonobese adolescents aged 9 to 13 years found a reduced increase in BW in the oligofructose + inulin (8 g/day) group compared with the control group after 1 year. For the adult population, 15 RCTs (n = 545) met the inclusion criteria. Five RCTs found no effect of ITF supplementation on appetite sensations. Eleven RCTs found no effect of ITF supplementation on daily energy intake or energy intake during a meal tolerance test. Among 3 RCTs that assessed the effect of ITF supplementation on BW, 2 RCTs showed a (significant) reduction in BW. Of 3 RCTs that evaluated body mass index (BMI), 1 RCT showed a significant reduction in BMI in subjects supplemented with ITF. Conclusion: Limited data suggest that long-term administration of ITF may contribute to weight reduction.
systematic-review	ANM350313	Maternal and Paternal Body Mass Index and Offspring Obesity: A Systematic Review Maternal and Paternal Body Mass Index and Offspring Obesity: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: It has been hypothesized that the intrauterine environment is an independent factor in obesity development. If so, the maternal effect is likely to be a stronger influencing factor (‘fetal overnutrition hypothesis'). We aimed to systematically evaluate the associations of offspring body mass index (BMI, or adiposity) with pre-pregnancy BMI (or adiposity) of the mother and the father. Methods: The Medline, Embase and Cochrane Library databases were searched in March 2012. Results: Seven cohort studies were eligible for the analysis. Among these, 2 groups of trials presented different data from the same parent-offspring cohorts (the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children, ALSPAC, and the Mater-University Study of Pregnancy, MUSP). In total, 3 large birth cohorts and 1 additional small study were identified. Three studies provided a direct comparison of parent-offspring associations, with a statistically stronger maternal influence found only in the MUSP cohort. Equivocal results were obtained from all studies describing the ALSPAC cohort. The parental effect (indirectly estimated based on the presented odds ratio) was similar in the Finnish cohort. In 1 additional small study, maternal BMI was found to be a strong predictor of childhood obesity. Conclusions: There is only limited evidence to support the ‘fetal overnutrition hypothesis'.
systematic-review	ANM355437	"Intake of Fatty Acids in General Populations Worldwide Does Not Meet Dietary Recommendations to Prevent Coronary Heart Disease: A Systematic Review of Data from 40 Countries Intake of Fatty Acids in General Populations Worldwide Does Not Meet Dietary Recommendations to Prevent Coronary Heart Disease: A Systematic Review of Data from 40 Countries Aim: To systematically review data from different countries on population intakes of total fat, saturated fatty acids (SFA) and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), and to compare these to recommendations from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/the World Health Organization (FAO/WHO). Methods: Data from national dietary surveys or population studies published from 1995 were searched via MEDLINE, Web of Science and websites of national public health institutes. Results: Fatty acid intake data from 40 countries were included. Total fat intake ranged from 11.1 to 46.2 percent of energy intake (% E), SFA from 2.9 to 20.9% E and PUFA from 2.8 to 11.3% E. The mean intakes met the recommendation for total fat (20-35% E), SFA (&lt;10% E) and PUFA (6-11% E) in 25, 11 and 20 countries, respectively. SFA intake correlated with total fat intake (r = 0.76, p &lt; 0.01) but not with PUFA intake (r = 0.03, p = 0.84). Twenty-seven countries provided data on the distribution of fatty acids intake. In 18 of 27 countries, more than 50% of the population had SFA intakes &gt;10% E and in 13 of 27 countries, the majority of the population had PUFA intakes &lt;6% E. Conclusions: In many countries, the fatty acids intake of adults does not meet the levels that are recommended to prevent chronic diseases. The relation between SFA and PUFA intakes shows that lower intakes of SFA in the populations are not accompanied by higher intakes of PUFA, as is recommended for preventing coronary heart disease."
systematic-review	ANM365031	"Early Infant Feeding and Adiposity Risk: From Infancy to Adulthood Early Infant Feeding and Adiposity Risk: From Infancy to Adulthood Introduction: Systematic reviews suggest that a longer duration of breast-feeding is associated with a reduction in the risk of later overweight and obesity. Most studies examining breast-feeding in relation to adiposity have not used longitudinal analysis. In our study, we aimed to examine early infant feeding and adiposity risk in a longitudinal cohort from birth to young adulthood using new as well as published data. Methods: Data from the Western Australian Pregnancy Cohort (Raine) Study in Perth, W.A., Australia, were used to examine associations between breast-feeding and measures of adiposity at 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 10, 14, 17, and 20 years. Results: Breast-feeding was measured in a number of ways. Longer breast-feeding (in months) was associated with reductions in weight z-scores between birth and 1 year (β = -0.027; p &lt; 0.001) in the adjusted analysis. At 3 years, breast-feeding for &lt;4 months increased the odds of infants experiencing early rapid growth (OR 2.05; 95% CI 1.43-2.94; p &lt; 0.001). From 1 to 8 years, children breast-fed for ≤4 months compared to ≥12 months had a significantly greater probability of exceeding the 95th percentile of weight. The age at which breast-feeding was stopped and a milk other than breast milk was introduced (introduction of formula milk) played a significant role in the trajectory of the BMI from birth to 14 years; the 4-month cutoff point was consistently associated with a higher BMI trajectory. Introduction of a milk other than breast milk before 6 months compared to at 6 months or later was a risk factor for being overweight or obese at 20 years of age (OR 1.47; 95% CI 1.12-1.93; p = 0.005). Discussion: Breast-feeding until 6 months of age and beyond should be encouraged and is recommended for protection against increased adiposity in childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood. Adverse long-term effects of early growth acceleration are fundamental in later overweight and obesity. Formula feeding stimulates a higher postnatal growth velocity, whereas breast-feeding promotes slower growth and a reduced likelihood of overweight and obesity. Biological mechanisms underlying the protective effect of breast-feeding against obesity are based on the unique composition and metabolic and physiological responses to human milk."
systematic-review	ANM365175	Basal and Resting Metabolic Rates of Physically Disabled Adult Subjects: A Systematic Review of Controlled Cross-Sectional Studies Basal and Resting Metabolic Rates of Physically Disabled Adult Subjects: A Systematic Review of Controlled Cross-Sectional Studies Aim: To systematically review studies that investigated the basal metabolic rate (BMR) and resting metabolic rate (RMR) of physically disabled adult subjects. Methods: The studies were identified via MedLine, Science Direct, Science Search, Scientific Electronic Library Online, Wiley, Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature, Cochrane, Indice Bibliográfico Espanõl de Ciencias de la Salud, Scopus, ProQuest Dissertations &
systematic-review	ANM365767	"Current Information and Asian Perspectives on Long-Chain Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids in Pregnancy, Lactation, and Infancy: Systematic Review and Practice Recommendations from an Early Nutrition Academy Workshop Current Information and Asian Perspectives on Long-Chain Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids in Pregnancy, Lactation, and Infancy: Systematic Review and Practice Recommendations from an Early Nutrition Academy Workshop The Early Nutrition Academy supported a systematic review of human studies on the roles of pre- and postnatal long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA) published from 2008 to 2013 and an expert workshop that reviewed the information and developed recommendations, considering particularly Asian populations. An increased supply of n-3 LC-PUFA during pregnancy reduces the risk of preterm birth before 34 weeks of gestation. Pregnant women should achieve an additional supply ≥200 mg docosahexaenic acid (DHA)/day, usually achieving a total intake ≥300 mg DHA/day. Higher intakes (600-800 mg DHA/day) may provide greater protection against early preterm birth. Some studies indicate beneficial effects of pre- and postnatal DHA supply on child neurodevelopment and allergy risk. Breast-feeding is the best choice for infants. Breast-feeding women should get ≥200 mg DHA/day to achieve a human milk DHA content of ∼0.3% fatty acids. Infant formula for term infants should contain DHA and arachidonic acid (AA) to provide 100 mg DHA/day and 140 mg AA/day. A supply of 100 mg DHA/day should continue during the second half of infancy. We do not provide quantitative advice on AA levels in follow-on formula fed after the introduction of complimentary feeding due to a lack of sufficient data and considerable variation in the AA amounts provided by complimentary foods. Reasonable intakes for very-low-birth weight infants are 18-60 mg/kg/day DHA and 18-45 mg/kg/day AA, while higher intakes (55-60 mg/kg/day DHA, ∼1% fatty acids; 35-45 mg/kg/day AA, ∼0.6-0.75%) appear preferable. Research on the requirements and effects of LC-PUFA during pregnancy, lactation, and early childhood should continue."
meta-analysis	ANM365892	"Hyperglycemia Induced by Glucocorticoids in Nondiabetic Patients: A Meta-Analysis Hyperglycemia Induced by Glucocorticoids in Nondiabetic Patients: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Glucocorticoids are associated with a number of side effects including the development of new-onset hyperglycemia or diabetes. The diagnosis and treatment of glucocorticoid-induced hyperglycemia are surprisingly undervalued by many health-care professionals, probably due to the lack of quality studies that assess specific reasons for and prevention of hyperglycemia. The aim of this meta-analysis was to evaluate the long-term incidence of glucocorticoid-induced hyperglycemia and diabetes in nondiabetic patients who received glucocorticoid treatment. Methods: We searched Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Library (Central) until January 2014 for studies in which subjects received systematic glucocorticoid treatment and which evaluated whether subjects developed hyperglycemia or were diagnosed with diabetes following treatment. The primary outcome for this analysis was the incidence of hyperglycemia and the secondary outcome was the frequency of diabetes. Results: We identified 13 studies that met our inclusion criteria; 12 of the studies were retrospective or observational in design. We found that the rate at which patients developed glucocorticoid-induced hyperglycemia or diabetes was 32.3% (p = 0.003) and 18.6% (p = 0.002), respectively. Conclusions: Our meta-analysis indicated that glucocorticoid-induced hyperglycemia occurs fairly frequently and points to the need for the design of prospective, randomized, controlled studies to further investigate and better understand this medical problem."
research-article	ANM370198	"The Relationship between Serum Osteocalcin Concentration and Glucose and Lipid Metabolism in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus - The Role of Osteocalcin in Energy Metabolism The Relationship between Serum Osteocalcin Concentration and Glucose and Lipid Metabolism in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus - The Role of Osteocalcin in Energy Metabolism Background: Recent animal studies have found that the osteocalcin secreted by osteoblasts could participate in glucose and lipid metabolism. Our study aimed to investigate the relationship between serum osteocalcin concentration and glucose and lipid metabolism in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Methods: 985 patients with type 2 diabetes were divided into the male group (n = 495) and the postmenopausal female group (n = 490). The average ages were 54.42 ± 10.535 and 64.93 ± 9.277, respectively. We collected the parameters of age, duration, fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, fasting insulin, fasting C peptide, blood lipid, 25 (OH) VD3, parathyroid hormone (PTH), Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), procollagen type 1 N-terminal propeptide (P1NP), β-C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen (β-CTx), osteocalcin, HOMA-IR, HOMA-β, body mass index (BMI), and waist-to-hip ratio (WHR). The relationship of osteocalcin and these parameters were analyzed by Pearson/Spearman correlation analysis and stepwise multiple regression analysis. Results: Osteocalcin was negatively correlated with HbA1c (p &lt; 0.05) and it was also an independent relevant factor affecting HbA1c in both groups. Osteocalcin was positively correlated with HOMA-β and it was an independent relevant factor affecting HOMA-β in male group (p &lt; 0.01). Conclusions: These findings indicate the association between serum osteocalcin and glucose metabolism and beta cell function. No relationship was found between osteocalcin and insulin resistance and lipid metabolism in type 2 diabetes."
systematic-review	ANM371357	Iron Intake and Status of Children Aged 6-36 Months in Europe: A Systematic Review Iron Intake and Status of Children Aged 6-36 Months in Europe: A Systematic Review Background: Iron deficiency is the most common nutritional disorder in the world. Young children are particularly vulnerable to the consequences of iron deficiency because of their rapidly developing brain. This review evaluates the prevalence of inadequate iron intake and iron deficiency (anaemia) in European children aged 6-36 months. Summary: Computerized searches for relevant articles were performed in November 2013. A total of 7,297 citations were screened and 44 studies conducted in 19 European countries were included in this review. In both infants (6-12 months) and young children (12-36 months), the mean value of iron intakes in most countries was close to the RDA. Nevertheless, proportions of inadequate intakes were considerable, ranging from about 10% in the Netherlands up to 50% in Austria, Finland and the United Kingdom. The prevalence of iron deficiency varied between studies and was influenced by children's characteristics. Two to 25% of infants aged 6-12 months were found to be iron deficient, with a higher prevalence in those who were socially vulnerable and those who were drinking cow's milk as a main type of drink in their first year of life. In children aged 12-36 months, prevalence rates of iron deficiency varied between 3 and 48%. Prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia in both age groups was high in Eastern Europe, as high as 50%, whereas the prevalence in Western Europe was generally below 5%. Key Messages: In most European countries, mean iron intakes of infants and children aged 6 to 36 months were found to be close to the RDA. Nevertheless, high proportions of inadequate intakes and high prevalence rates of iron deficiency were observed. Health programs should (keep) focus(ing) on iron malnutrition by educating parents on food choices for their children with iron-rich and iron-fortified foods, and encourage iron supplementation programmes where iron intakes are the lowest.
systematic-review	ANM430960	"A Systematic Review of the Efficacy of Bioactive Compounds in Cardiovascular Disease: Carbohydrates, Active Lipids and Nitrogen Compounds A Systematic Review of the Efficacy of Bioactive Compounds in Cardiovascular Disease: Carbohydrates, Active Lipids and Nitrogen Compounds Background/Aims: The prevalence of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) is rising and it is the prime cause of death in all developed countries. Bioactive compounds (BACs) can play a role in CVD prevention and treatment. To examine the scientific evidence supporting BACs groups' efficacy in CVD prevention and treatment, we conducted a systematized review. Methods: All available information on Medline, LILACS and EMBASE; all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with prospective, parallel or crossover designs in humans in which the BACs effect was compared with that of placebo/control. Vascular homeostasis, blood pressure, endothelial function, oxidative stress and inflammatory biomarkers were considered primary outcomes. Results: We selected 26 articles, verifying their quality based on the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network, establishing diverse quality levels of scientific evidence according to the design and bias risk of a study. Grades of recommendation were included, depending on the evidence strength of antecedents. Conclusions: Evidence shows that certain BACs' derivative from active lipids and nitrogen compounds, mainly from horse chestnut seed extract, sterol plants, allium derivatives, and certain doses of beta-glucans, can be helpful in decreasing the prevalence of CVD risk factors. However, further rigorous evidence is necessary to support and prove BACs' effect on CVD prevention and treatment."
systematic-review	ANM435862	"Macronutrient Intake and Inadequacies of Community-Dwelling Older Adults, a Systematic Review Macronutrient Intake and Inadequacies of Community-Dwelling Older Adults, a Systematic Review Background: Anorexia of ageing may predispose older adults to under-nutrition and protein energy malnutrition. Studies, however, report a large variation in nutrient inadequacies among community-dwelling older adults. Summary: This systematic review provides a comprehensive overview of the energy and macronutrient intakes and possible inadequacies in community-dwelling older adults. PubMed and EMBASE were screened up to December 2013; data from national nutrition surveys were added. Forty-six studies were included, following the PRISMA guideline. Key Messages: Mean daily energy intake was 8.9 MJ in men and 7.3 MJ in women. Mean daily carbohydrate and protein intakes were 46 and 15 En% in men and 47 and 16 En% in women, respectively. Mean daily total fat, saturated fatty acid (SFA), mono-unsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) and poly-unsaturated fatty acid intakes were respectively 34, 13, 13 and 5-6 En%. The carbohydrates and MUFA intakes are below the acceptable macronutrient distribution ranges (AMDR). Fat intake is relatively high, and SFA intake exceeds the upper-AMDR. Based on the estimated average requirement (EAR) cut-point method, 10-12% of older adults do not meet the EAR for protein. To interpret a possible energy imbalance additional information is needed on physical activity, energy expenditure and body weight changes. This systematic review indicates a suboptimal dietary macronutrient distribution and a large variation in nutrient intakes among community-dwelling older adults."
meta-analysis	ANM439285	Obesity and Pro12Ala Polymorphism of Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor-Gamma Gene in Healthy Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Obesity and Pro12Ala Polymorphism of Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor-Gamma Gene in Healthy Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the relationship between obesity and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR&
review-article	ANM448320	Historical Perspective on Clinical Trials of Carnitine in Children and Adults Historical Perspective on Clinical Trials of Carnitine in Children and Adults The metabolic roles of carnitine have been greatly clarified over the past 50 years, and it is now well established that carnitine is a key player in mitochondrial generation of energy and metabolism of acetyl coenzyme A. A therapeutic role for carnitine in treatment of nutritional deficiencies in infants and children was first demonstrated in 1958, and since that time it has been used to treat a number of inborn errors of metabolism. Carnitine was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in 1985 for treatment of ‘primary carnitine deficiency', and later in 1992 for treatment of ‘secondary carnitine deficiency', a definition that included the majority of relevant metabolic disorders associated with low or abnormal plasma carnitine levels. Today, carnitine treatment of inborn errors of metabolism is a safe and integral part of many treatment protocols, and a growing interest in carnitine has resulted in greater recognition of many causes of carnitine depletion. Notwithstanding, there is still a lack of data from randomized clinical trials, even on the use of carnitine in inborn errors of metabolism, although ethical issues may be a contributing factor in this regard.
review-article	ANM448321	Primary Carnitine Deficiency and Newborn Screening for Disorders of the Carnitine Cycle Primary Carnitine Deficiency and Newborn Screening for Disorders of the Carnitine Cycle Carnitine is needed for transfer of long-chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane for subsequent β-oxidation. Carnitine can be synthesized by the body and is also obtained in the diet through consumption of meat and dairy products. Defects in carnitine transport such as those caused by defective activity of the OCTN2 transporter encoded by the SLC22A5 gene result in primary carnitine deficiency, and newborn screening programmes can identify patients at risk for this condition before irreversible damage. Initial biochemical diagnosis can be confirmed through molecular testing, although direct study of carnitine transport in fibroblasts is very useful to confirm or exclude primary carnitine deficiency in individuals with genetic variations of unknown clinical significance or who continue to have low levels of carnitine despite negative molecular analyses. Genetic defects in carnitine biosynthesis do not generally result in low plasma levels of carnitine. However, deletion of the trimethyllysine hydroxylase gene, a key gene in carnitine biosynthesis, has been associated with non-dysmorphic autism. Thus, new roles for carnitine are emerging that are unrelated to classic inborn errors of metabolism.
review-article	ANM448322	Anthracycline-Induced Cardiotoxicity in Young Cancer Patients: The Role of Carnitine Anthracycline-Induced Cardiotoxicity in Young Cancer Patients: The Role of Carnitine While the increased rates of survival in childhood cancers have increased progressively in recent decades, many childhood cancer survivors will have at least one chronic health condition within 40 years of age. In this regard, cardiovascular complications have emerged as a leading cause of long-term morbidity and mortality in long-term survivors of childhood cancer, likely due to exposure to anthracycline chemotherapy, and outcomes in patients with anthracycline-related cardiomyopathy remain poor. Some progress has been made in understanding the mechanisms at the basis of anthracycline-related cardiomyopathy, which appear to involve generation of reactive oxygen species, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction, followed by myocyte apoptosis and maladaptive left ventricular remodeling. Even if several guidelines currently exist for monitoring cancer patients treated with cardiotoxic therapies who are at high risk for heart failure, much work remains to be done in finding reliable markers for screening for cardiac dysfunction. Studies from our group have identified alterations in L-carnitine in cancer survivors. While additional investigations are needed, preliminary studies suggest a role for carnitine in primary prevention (during treatment) and secondary prevention (to improve function after treatment).
review-article	ANM448357	Fatty Acid Oxidation and Its Relation with Insulin Resistance and Associated Disorders Fatty Acid Oxidation and Its Relation with Insulin Resistance and Associated Disorders Alterations in muscle fatty acid metabolism have been implicated in mediating the severity of insulin resistance. In the insulin resistant heart fatty acids are favored as an energy source over glucose, which is thus associated with increased fatty acid oxidation, and an overall decrease in glycolysis and glucose oxidation. In addition, excessive uptake and beta-oxidation of fatty acids in obesity and diabetes can compromise cardiac function. In animal studies, mice fed a high fat diet (HFD) show cardiac insulin resistance in which the accumulation of intra-myocardial diacylglycerol has been implicated, likely involving parallel signaling pathways. A HFD also results in accumulation of fatty acid oxidation byproducts in muscle, further contributing to insulin resistance. Carnitine acetyltransferase (CrAT) has an essential role in the cardiomyocyte because of its need for large amounts of carnitine. In the cardiomyocyte, carnitine switches energy substrate preference in the heart from fatty acid oxidation to glucose oxidation. This carnitine-induced switch in fatty acid oxidation to glucose oxidation is due to the presence of cytosolic CrAT and reverse CrAT activity. Accordingly, inhibition of fatty acid oxidation, or stimulation of CrAT, may be a novel approach to treatment of insulin resistance.
systematic-review	ANM456723	"Systematic Review on N-3 and N-6 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid Intake in European Countries in Light of the Current Recommendations - Focus on Specific Population Groups Systematic Review on N-3 and N-6 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid Intake in European Countries in Light of the Current Recommendations - Focus on Specific Population Groups Background: Earlier reviews indicated that in many countries adults, children and adolescents consume on an average less polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) than recommended by the Food and Agriculture Organisation/World Health Organisation. Summary: The intake of total and individual n-3 and n-6 PUFAs in European infants, children, adolescents, elderly and pregnant/lactating women was evaluated systematically. Results: The evaluations were done against recommendations of the European Food Safety Authority. Key Messages: Fifty-three studies from 17 different European countries reported an intake of total n-3 and n-6 PUFAs and/or individual n-3 or n-6 PUFAs in at least one of the specific population groups: 10 in pregnant women, 4 in lactating women, 3 in infants 6-12 months, 6 in children 1-3 years, 11 in children 4-9 years, 8 in adolescents 10-18 years and 11 in elderly &gt;65 years. Mean linoleic acid intake was within the recommendation (4 energy percentage [E%]) in 52% of the countries, with inadequate intakes more likely in lactating women, adolescents and elderly. Mean α-linolenic acid intake was within the recommendation (0.5 E%) in 77% of the countries. In 26% of the countries, mean eicosapentaenoic acid and/or docosahexaenoic acid intake was as recommended. These results indicate that intake of n-3 and n-6 PUFAs may be suboptimal in specific population groups in Europe."
systematic-review	ANM457920	Breastfeeding, Childhood Asthma, and Allergic Disease Breastfeeding, Childhood Asthma, and Allergic Disease The worldwide prevalence of childhood asthma has been increasing considerably, and the protection afforded by breastfeeding in its development has been the subject of controversy for more than 80 years. Previous systematic reviews have generally found a protective effect of breastfeeding on allergic outcomes, although many studies have methodological limitations. Although breastfeeding is protective against lower respiratory tract infection during infancy, such protection has not been demonstrated for asthma in all studies. Breastfeeding has health benefits for the mother and child. Exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months of an infant's life, with continued breastfeeding for up to 2 years or longer, is recognized as the “gold” standard for infant feeding because human milk is uniquely suited to the human infant, and its nutritional content and bioactivity promote a healthy development. There is increasing concern that the practice of delaying complementary foods until 6 months may exacerbate the risk of allergic disease. Breast milk contains immunological components that protect against infections and allergic disease in infancy. The composition of human breast milk is complex, containing factors that interact with the infant immune system and intestinal milieu including allergens, cytokines, immunoglobulins, polyunsaturated fatty acids, and chemokines. Transforming growth factor β is a cytokine in human milk involved in maintaining intestinal homeostasis, inflammation regulation, and oral tolerance development. Modern day society, with increased standards of hygiene, has changed the gut flora of Western infants, potentially impacting the risk of developing immune-mediated diseases including allergic disease and asthma. Microbial diversity is intrinsic to healthy immune maturation and function. Compared to breastfed infants, formula-fed infants had lower bacterial diversity and an altered intestinal microbiota in the first few weeks of life associated with an increased risk of eczema and asthma. Favorable gut colonization through continued breastfeeding may promote tolerance as well as protection when complementary feeding is initiated.
meta-analysis	ANM477216	Clinical Outcomes of Dietary Replacement of Saturated Fatty Acids with Unsaturated Fat Sources in Adults with Overweight and Obesity: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Control Trials Clinical Outcomes of Dietary Replacement of Saturated Fatty Acids with Unsaturated Fat Sources in Adults with Overweight and Obesity: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Control Trials Background: Obesity and dyslipidemia are frequently treated with dietary interventions before pharmacotherapy is given. Diets high in unsaturated fat have proven advantageous to disease treatment. Aims: The purpose of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to assess the evidence of the effect of saturated fatty acids (SFA) replacement with unsaturated fatty acids (UFA) in metabolically healthy adults with overweight and obesity on markers of dyslipidemia and body composition. Methods: Keyword search was performed in PubMed, CINAHL, and Cochrane Library for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the effects of fatty acid substitution in adults with overweight and obesity. Meta-analysis was performed on interventions assessing lipoprotein levels and body composition. Publication bias was assessed by funnel plot inspection, Begg's, and Egger's test. Results: Eight RCTs enrolling 663 participants were included in the review, with intervention durations between 4 and 28 weeks. Although nonsignificant (p = 0.06), meta-analysis found UFA replacement to reduce total cholesterol concentrations by 10.68 mg/dL (95%CI -21.90 to 0.53). Reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides were statistically nonsignificant. Conclusions: Due to null results and a small number of studies included, there is no strong evidence that replacement of SFA with UFA may benefit lipid profiles in this population.
meta-analysis	ANM481355	"Insulin Regimens to Treat Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients on Nutritional Support: Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses Insulin Regimens to Treat Hyperglycemia in Hospitalized Patients on Nutritional Support: Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses Background: The best insulin regimen to treat hyperglycemia in hospitalized patients on nutritional support (NS) is unclear. Methods: We searched electronic databases to identify cohort studies or randomized clinical trials in order to evaluate the efficacy of different insulin regimens used to treat hyperglycemia in hospitalized patients on NS on diverse outcomes: mean blood glucose (MBG), hypoglycemia, length of stay in hospital, and mortality. Results: Seventeen studies from a total of 5,030 were included. Enteral Group included 8 studies; 1,203 patients using rapid, glargine, NPH, or Premix insulin; MBG 108-225 mg/dL; hypoglycemia 0-13%. In indirect meta-analyses, NPH insulin ranked best for glucose control (MD 95% CI -2.50 mg/dL [2.65 to -2.35]). Parenteral Group included 4 studies; 228 patients using regular and glargine or NPH insulin; MBG 137-202 mg/dL; hypoglycemia 0-40%. In meta-analyses comparing regular insulin added to parenteral nutrition bag with glargine, MBG (MD 95% CI -3.78 mg/dL [-11.93 to 4.37]; I2 = 0%) or hypoglycemia frequency (RR 95% CI 1.37 [0.43-4.32]; I2 = 70.7%) did not differ. The description related to hospital length of stay and mortality was inconsistent between groups. Conclusions: The best insulin regimen to treat hyperglycemia in hospitalized patients on NS has not been established; best results using insulin regimens with NPH in enteral nutrition do not seem to be clinically relevant."
research-article	ANM494886	"Fatty Acid Composition of the Erythrocyte Membranes Varies between Early-Term, Full-Term, and Late-Term Infants in Japan Fatty Acid Composition of the Erythrocyte Membranes Varies between Early-Term, Full-Term, and Late-Term Infants in Japan Background: Term infants can be categorized into 3 sub-groups: early term (37w0d to 38w6d), full term (39w0d to 40w6d), and late term (41w0d and beyond). However, the fatty acid composition among the 3 groups of term infants has not been investigated. The association between fatty acid composition and gestational period of term infants in Japan is unclear. Methods: We assessed the fatty acid composition of maternal erythrocyte membranes in the third trimester and of cord erythrocyte membranes at birth in 212 healthy term Japanese infants using data from a prospective hospital-based cohort study. Results: In maternal erythrocyte membranes, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) levels and omega-3 index were significantly higher in the late-term group than in the early-term group. In cord erythrocyte membranes, DHA levels were not significantly different between the 3 groups; late-term infants showed significantly higher DHA/arachidonic acid (ARA) and lower 20: 3n-6 and ARA levels compared to early-term infants. Gestational period positively correlated with the DHA status in maternal and cord erythrocyte membranes. Conclusions: Fatty acid composition in maternal and cord erythrocyte membranes varies between early-, full-, and late-term infants, and the greater gestational period may contribute to the relatively high n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids status in term infants. Furthermore, maternal DHA status in the third semester directly correlates with gestational period in pregnant Japanese women."
research-article	ANM495214	A multicentre Study of Nutrition Risk Assessment in Adult Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease Attending Outpatient Clinics A multicentre Study of Nutrition Risk Assessment in Adult Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease Attending Outpatient Clinics Background: Overnutrition and undernutrition can affect patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Although all IBD outpatients should be screened for nutrition risk, screening is not routinely performed, potentially leading to reduced identification and treatment. This study aimed to estimate the prevalence of nutrition risk in adult IBD outpatients and the proportion of cases who discussed diet and/or nutrition during their routine clinical appointment. Methods: Adults with IBD attending outpatient clinics at 4 hospitals in Greece and in UK were recruited. Demographic and anthropometric data were collected using face-to-face patient interviews and clinical records. Patients were classified as high (i.e., body mass index [BMI] &
review-article	ANS278700	Evaluación clínica básica de la malnutrición pediátrica Evaluación clínica básica de la malnutrición pediátrica El examen colectivo y la evaluación del riesgo nutricional deben constituir una parte sistemática de la evaluación clínica. Los objetivos de la evaluación nutricional consisten en determinar el riesgo o la presencia de malnutrición y proporcionar normas para el tratamiento a corto y a largo plazo. El estado nutricional se evalúa por medio de un abordaje simple, principalmente clínico, basado en la historia clínica, la exploración física, las mediciones antropométricas, la ingestión alimentaria, la composición corporal y los parámetros biológicos. La evaluación del estado nutricional debe comenzar con la historia y la exploración física en combinación con el registro alimentario. Cuando se presume que un niño presenta riesgo de desnutrición es imprescindible la evaluación de la ingestión inadecuada, la reducción de la absorción, las pérdidas excesivas, el deterioro de la utilización o el aumento de las necesidades. El crecimiento es el mejor indicador del estado nutricional. El análisis del crecimiento (ganancia de peso y velocidad del crecimiento) mediante curvas de crecimiento sigue siendo la herramienta más simple para evaluar los cambios en el estado nutricional. Otros índices antropométricos utilizados para evaluar el estado nutricional son el índice de masa corporal, el espesor del pliegue cutáneo y el perímetro del antebrazo (MAC, por sus siglas en inglés). Aunque se utilizan varias clasificaciones para definir la malnutrición, ninguna de ellas ha sido validada correctamente para diagnosticar la malnutrición en los niños. Hasta la fecha, el examen colectivo nutricional sistemático se realiza raramente en pacientes pediátricos debido a la ausencia de una herramienta de detección sistemática nutricional simple y válida. Todavía no se ha elaborado una herramienta de detección sistemática fácil de usar que haya sido validada en diversos procesos pediátricos.
review-article	ANS278701	La malnutrición en los países desarrollados La malnutrición en los países desarrollados En las sociedades desarrolladas se ha constatado repetidamente que la desnutrición es común en pacientes hospitalizados. A pesar de contribuir a desenlaces adversos, puede pasar inadvertida a menos que se emprenda sistemáticamente una evaluación formal. El equipo de apoyo nutricional desempeña papeles importantes en la formación del personal con respecto a la importancia de la nutrición para todos los pacientes y la garantía de intervenciones eficaces y seguras. Sobre las organizaciones de asistencia sanitaria recae la responsabilidad de fomentar el cuidado nutricional como prioridad fundamental. El trabajo multidisciplinario, la flexibilidad y la buena comunicación entre diferentes departamentos son requisitos para un apoyo nutricional efectivo en el hospital.
review-article	ANS278702	La malnutrición en los países en vías de desarrollo: un cambio de apariencia La malnutrición en los países en vías de desarrollo: un cambio de apariencia La malnutrición implica anomalías de sobrenutrición y subnutrición. Los países en vías de desarrollo se caracterizan por la pobreza generalizada, debida a la escasez de recursos económicos o la distribución injusta de la riqueza en la sociedad. Aunque la subnutrición se manifiesta como la insuficiencia ponderal, emaciación y retraso del crecimiento en la población, y el tratamiento hospitalario de la nutrición clínica grave, de tercer grado, ha sido la preocupación clásica de la nutrición en países en vías de desarrollo, el proceso de transición nutricional ha cambiado este equilibrio desproporcionado. Actualmente, en los ámbitos hospitalario y extrahospitalario debe abordarse una carga doble de nutrición deficiente y excesiva. Mientras que las tasas específicas de subnutrición declinan, el crecimiento de la población impulsa un número de niños subnutridos cada vez mayor en todo el mundo. Aunque no representa nada nuevo, la atención de la salud pública a las deficiencias de vitamina A, yodo, hierro, cinc, vitamina D y vitamina B12 ha tomado nuevos impulsos. Las tasas de sobrepeso y obesidad se están elevando en ciertas subpoblaciones de países en vías de desarrollo y el síndrome metabólico está llegando a establecerse en sociedades de bajos ingresos. Es importante que los conceptos y las prioridades para los países en vías de desarrollo se actualicen continuamente, tal como intentamos aquí, de manera que no nos quedemos aferrados a realidades de décadas pasadas para crear mitos que oscurezcan la evolución contemporánea de la desnutrición en todo el planeta.
review-article	ANS278703	Métodos y objetivos terapéuticos en la malnutrición pediátrica Métodos y objetivos terapéuticos en la malnutrición pediátrica La desnutrición hospitalaria sigue siendo un problema generalizado en todos los hospitales europeos, que afecta al 20–40% de pacientes adultos y pediátricos. En combinación con una enfermedad subyacente, la desnutrición deteriora la función inmunitaria y muscular, prolonga la cicatrización de las heridas, inicia la disfunción intestinal y, en consecuencia, incrementa los riesgos de complicaciones graves y reduce la calidad de vida. Idealmente, el papel del apoyo nutricional consiste en prevenir la subnutrición y, en caso de que ésta estuviera ya presente, restablecer la situación nutricional normal, evitando al mismo tiempo las complicaciones nutricionales, y fomentar hábitos y aptitudes alimentarios adecuados con el desarrollo. El objetivo de este artículo es comentar cómo alcanzar esta finalidad en pacientes pediátricos y describir los métodos elegibles de tratamiento nutricional. La selección del método terapéutico depende de la enfermedad subyacente, la edad del paciente, la situación gastrointestinal, las posibilidades de ingestión oral y los costes y hábitos alimentarios familiares. Con respecto a todos estos factores y particularmente a las necesidades nutricionales individuales y a la situación nutricional actual, la intensidad del apoyo nutricional debe incrementarse de forma paulatina desde una asesoría dietética reforzada, pasando por varias modalidades de nutrición enteral, hasta la nutrición parenteral. Como recomendación general, cuando la situación clínica impide la ingestión oral, debe utilizarse la nutrición enteral siempre que el tubo digestivo sea funcional. La nutrición parenteral se reserva para niños con intestino inexistente, inaccesible o disfuncional y, en estas condiciones clínicas, es un procedimiento que salva vidas. Independientemente de la modalidad de apoyo nutricional, en niños con desnutrición grave debe adoptarse un cuidado particular para evitar la aparición del síndrome de realimentación. Los objetivos de la asistencia nutricional se obtienen de la mejor manera, y con una relación entre costes y beneficios óptima, a través del establecimiento de un equipo de apoyo nutricional, que está formado por un pediatra con experiencia en nutrición clínica, una enfermera, un dietista/especialista en nutrición y, en la medida de lo posible, un farmacéutico.
meta-analysis	AON443568	Association between Apolipoprotein ε4 Gene Polymorphism and Risk of Ischemic Stroke: A Meta-Analysis Association between Apolipoprotein ε4 Gene Polymorphism and Risk of Ischemic Stroke: A Meta-Analysis Background: Previous studies examining the association of apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene polymorphism with the risk of ischemic stroke (IS) have yielded conflicting results. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to investigate the association between APOE ε4 gene polymorphism and risk of IS. Summary: A literature search for genetic association studies published before May 30, 2015, was conducted in the PubMed, EMBASE and Google Scholar databases. The following search terms were used: (apolipoprotein E) or (APOE) and (ε4) and (polymorphism) or (polymorphisms) and (‘ischemic stroke' or ‘IS') and (‘cerebral infarction' or ‘CI') and (‘genetic polymorphism' or ‘single nucleotide polymorphisms' or ‘SNP'). ORs and 95% CIs were used to calculate the strength of association. Begg's funnel plot was used to assess the potential for publication bias. In our meta-analysis, 26 case-control studies involving 6,397 IS cases and 19,053 controls were included. Overall significant association between carrier of ε4 allele and risk of IS was observed (OR 1.43, 95% CI 1.10-1.85, p = 0.007). In the subgroup analysis based on ethnicity, a significant association between Apo ε4 carrier and risk of IS was observed in Asian studies (OR 1.53, 95% CI 1.04-2.25, p = 0.031) whereas borderline significant association between APO ε4 carrier and risk of IS was observed in Caucasian studies (OR 1.36, 95% CI 0.95-1.93, p = 0.093). Key Messages: Our meta-analysis suggests that APOE ε4 allele is associated with higher risk of IS in Asian population as compared to Caucasian population.
case-report	AON449186	Wernicke's Encephalopathy - ‘Pushing the Envelope' of Patient's Profile: A Case Report Wernicke's Encephalopathy - ‘Pushing the Envelope' of Patient's Profile: A Case Report Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE), an acute neuropsychiatric condition, is caused by thiamine deficiency. Traditionally, it has been associated with patients with a background of alcoholism. However, in the past few decades, with increasing trends in the incidence of WE among patients without a history of alcohol consumption, a pressing need was felt to examine the existing guidelines for the management of WE and its sequelae. The need for a revision was felt as the guidelines for the management of WE were developed around the premise that this affliction is observed mainly among alcoholics. In light of the opportunity presented to us by one of our patients who did not ‘fit the bill' of a traditional case of WE, we decided to compare and contrast the management of WE among patients with and without a background of alcoholism. After analyzing the available data on WE among alcoholics and non-alcoholics, we concluded that a high degree of suspicion should be kept in mind if any of the classical features are observed, with a special emphasis on eliciting the underlying causes through a detailed history. Furthermore, thiamine supplementation at a lower dose of 100-200 mg should be initiated first, followed by laboratory and radiological investigations.
case-report	AON449488	Glioblastoma Multiforme with Hemorrhage Mimicking an Aneurysm: Lessons Learnt Glioblastoma Multiforme with Hemorrhage Mimicking an Aneurysm: Lessons Learnt Background: A sudden onset of neurological symptoms in patients is conventionally thought to be due to vascular phenomenon, with one common differential diagnosis being subarachnoid hemorrhage. Another important differential diagnosis is ischemic stroke. An uncommon cause of such acute symptoms can be hemorrhage in a pre-existing tumor, that is, intratumoral hemorrhage (ITH). Purpose: ITH is an important, though uncommon differential diagnosis in cases of sudden onset of neurological deterioration. Methods and Result: A 60-year-old male presented with seizures and loss of consciousness 12 h prior to admission. The episode was sudden in onset. After detailed clinical and radiological investigations, the patient was diagnosed with glioma with bleed and was successfully operated upon. Conclusion: The combination of hemorrhage and ischemic stroke pointed more towards an aneurysm rather than a tumor bleed. There were pointers both in favor of and against both the diagnosis. Therefore, a complex hemorrhagic cerebral tumor with acute presentation and discordant finding on CT or CT angiography should be characterized preoperatively. A large thrombosed aneurysm remains an important differential diagnosis.
review-article	AON479638	Garth J. Thomas, Physiological Psychologist: An Appraisal of His Contributions to Memory Research Garth J. Thomas, Physiological Psychologist: An Appraisal of His Contributions to Memory Research This note is a tribute to Garth J. Thomas (1916-2008), late Professor of Brain Research at the University of Rochester, New York. Thomas was an influential psychologist, albeit for his research in learning and memory, as much as for his work as editor of the Journal of Comparative and Physiological Psychology. In his studies, he combined experimental lesions with behavioral analyses. He introduced the terms “dispositional” and “representational” to describe the 2 different types of memory function, and emphasized that memory must be studied not only through behavioristic psychology, but also in a molecular and physiological context. Through his experimentation in rodents, Thomas concluded that distinct neural mechanisms underpin dispositional and representational memory. Prompted by Thomas' remarks on the future evolution of research techniques, we touch upon some ideas on the engram and the glial theory in a modern perspective.
research-article	AUD371599	Predictive Factors of Cochlear Implant Outcomes in the Elderly Predictive Factors of Cochlear Implant Outcomes in the Elderly Objective: To analyze predictive factors of cochlear implant outcomes and postoperative complications in the elderly. Study Design: Prospective, longitudinal study performed in 10 tertiary referral centers. Methods: Ninety-four patients aged 65-85 years with a profound, postlingual hearing loss were evaluated before implantation, at time of activation, and 6 and 12 months after cochlear implantation. Speech perception and lipreading were measured using disyllabic word recognition in quiet and noise, and lipreading using disyllabic words and sentences. The influence of preoperative factors on speech perception in quiet and noise at 12 months was tested in a multivariate analysis. Complications, presence of tinnitus and of vestibular symptoms were collected at each evaluation. Results: The effect of age was observed only in difficult noisy conditions at SNR 0 dB. Lipreading ability for words and sentences was negatively correlated with speech perception in quiet and noise. Better speech perception scores were observed in patients with shorter duration of hearing deprivation, persistence of residual hearing for the low frequencies, the use of a hearing aid before implantation, the absence of cardiovascular risk factors, and in those with implantation in the right ear. General and surgical complications were very rare, and the percentage of vestibular symptoms remained stable over time. Conclusion:This study demonstrates that cochlear implantation in the elderly is a well-tolerated procedure and an effective method to improve communication ability. Advanced age has a low effect on cochlear implant outcome. Analyses of predictive factors in this population provide a convincing argument to recommend treatment with cochlear implantation as early as possible in elderly patients with confirmed diagnosis of a severe-to-profound hearing loss and with only limited benefit from hearing aid use in one ear.
research-article	AUD371602	"Neural Correlates of Auditory-Cognitive Processing in Older Adult Cochlear Implant Recipients Neural Correlates of Auditory-Cognitive Processing in Older Adult Cochlear Implant Recipients With the growing number of older adults receiving cochlear implants (CI), there is general agreement that substantial benefits can be gained. Nonetheless, variability in speech perception performance is high, and the relative contribution and interactions among peripheral, central-auditory, and cognitive factors are not fully understood. The goal of the present study was to compare auditory-cognitive processing in older-adult CI recipients with that of older normal-hearing (NH) listeners by means of behavioral and electrophysiologic manifestations of a high-load cognitive task. Auditory event-related potentials (AERPs) were recorded from 9 older postlingually deafened adults with CI (age at CI &gt;60) and 10 age-matched listeners with NH, while performing an auditory Stroop task. Participants were required to classify the speaker's gender (male/female) that produced the words ‘mother' or ‘father' while ignoring the irrelevant congruent or incongruent word meaning. Older CI and NH listeners exhibited comparable reaction time, performance accuracy, and initial sensory-perceptual processing (i.e. N1 potential). Nonetheless, older CI recipients showed substantially prolonged and less efficient perceptual processing (i.e. P3 potential). Congruency effects manifested in longer reaction time (i.e. Stroop effect), execution time, and P3 latency to incongruent versus congruent stimuli in both groups in a similar fashion; however, markedly prolonged P3 and shortened execution time were evident in older CI recipients. Collectively, older adults (CI and NH) employed a combined perceptual and postperceptual conflict processing strategy; nonetheless, the relative allotment of perceptual resources was substantially enhanced to maintain adequate performance in CI recipients. In sum, the recording of AERPs together with the simultaneously obtained behavioral measures during a Stroop task exposed a differential time course of auditory-cognitive processing in older CI recipients that was not manifested in the behavioral end products of processing. These data may have implications regarding clinical evaluation and rehabilitation procedures that should be tailored specifically for this unique group of patients."
research-article	AUD371605	Improvement of Telephone Communication in Elderly Cochlear Implant Patients Improvement of Telephone Communication in Elderly Cochlear Implant Patients Introduction: Elderly patients demonstrate more difficulty in telephone communication than in direct conversation. This deterioration in comprehension is due most likely to the narrowing of frequency range of transmission (300-3,400 Hz) and the lack of specific maps in the sound processor to accommodate the reduced information. Aims: The goal of this study was to create a new ‘telephone map' specific for phone use and to verify its effectiveness even in elderly patients. Methods: Twenty cochlear implant (CI) adult patients divided into two age groups (under 60 and over 60 years) were included in the study. All patients were assessed with a word recognition test presented via recorded, conventional telephone-transmitted voice signal while using their everyday map (SB-map) and while using the experimental map (T-map). The latter was created by lowering the current level to the minimum value for electrodes representing frequencies outside the range of the telephone signal without changing the frequency bands assigned to them. Results: In experimental listening conditions, the average recognition score using the SB-map was 65.5% in patients under 60 and 36.5% in patients over 60, while using the T-map it was 73.5 and 41.5%, respectively. This difference between the two maps was statistically significant in both groups (p &
research-article	AUD371607	Cochlear Implantation in the Elderly Cochlear Implantation in the Elderly Hearing disorders become an increasingly important issue that influences quality of life and many other economic factors. Due to the prolongation of human life and the more active lifestyles of people in retirement age, there is an increasing requirement for the available treatment options of hearing loss in the aging population. The aim of this study was to compare the hearing preservation outcomes of adult patients implanted with the Cochlear™ Nucleus® CI422 when divided into two groups by age, younger and older than 65 years of age. The study cohort consisted of 62 patients implanted from January 2011 through December 2013 at our clinic. All patients were assessed and classified according to the hearing preservation classification. Comparing the results between subgroups, we observed that the degree of hearing preservation was greater in younger adults than in older adults. Results of this review may suggest that deeper insertion is to be recommended for an older population of cochlear implant recipients.
research-article	AUD371609	"Benefits of Cochlear Implantation in Deafened Adults Benefits of Cochlear Implantation in Deafened Adults Aim: The objective was to retrospectively analyze the benefits of cochlear implantation in deafened elderly (&gt;65 years old). Method: Data from 30 elderly patients with a unilateral cochlear implant were included and analyzed. Audiometric threshold and speech data in aided and unaided conditions were examined at pre- and postimplant intervals at 3, 6, and 12 months after activation of the sound processor and compared. Results: All patients demonstrated hearing benefits after implant and over time with results ranging from very good, good, to limited performance in a few cases. The mean postimplantation follow-up time was 2.74 years (minimum 1 year). Our study cohort demonstrates that cochlear implantation is a successful treatment method for improving speech perception in the auditory alone or auditory-visual mode for the majority of elderly patients. No correlations were observed between postimplant outcomes and age, or preimplant hearing thresholds and speech audiometry. Conclusion: Age is not a determining or limiting factor for post-CI outcome performance in deafened elderly patients. Counselling should consider the patient as a whole and include explanation of the risk for a minority of elderly patients who may demonstrate poor outcomes after implant, despite presenting as good candidates before implantation."
research-article	AUD371611	Speech Performance and Training Effects in the Cochlear Implant Elderly Speech Performance and Training Effects in the Cochlear Implant Elderly Objectives: Cochlear implantation requires acclimatization to the electrical input. Usually, cochlear implant (CI) listeners undergo an auditory rehabilitation program that includes auditory training sessions. Recently, it was shown that a phoneme-based training may improve speech perception abilities even in experienced CI listeners. The current study focuses on whether the effect of an auditory training program depends on the age of CI listeners. Design: Fifteen CI listeners took part in an auditory phoneme-based computer training program. Before and after training, speech recognition tests in moderate and difficult noise (+5 dB SNR and 0 dB SNR, respectively) were administered. Additionally, speech recognition was tested 6 months after the training (follow-up). A control group consisting of 12 subjects underwent audiometric testing without any auditory training. Results: Speech perception in moderate noise improved significantly during the training as revealed by comparing pre- and posttraining scores evaluated in the moderate noise condition. No significant change was observed for the difficult noise situation at 0 dB SNR. The speech perception measures of the control group remained unchanged. No significant effect of age on the training effect was observed. Conclusion: Speech recognition can be improved even in experienced CI listeners. When motivated to participate, senior CI users with long-term CI experience may benefit in a similar way from an auditory, phoneme-based computer training program as younger CI users.
systematic-review	AUD375393	Ménière's Disease Treatment: A Patient-Centered Systematic Review Ménière's Disease Treatment: A Patient-Centered Systematic Review Ménière's disease is a disorder of the inner ear affecting hearing and balance to a varying degree. It is characterized by episodes of vertigo, low-pitched tinnitus, and hearing loss. There is currently no gold standard treatment for Ménière's disease. We conducted a systematic search of the Cochrane Database, as a high-quality source of evidence-based therapies, for reviews on the efficacy of etiological therapy or on Ménière's disease or its symptoms. Following recent positive experiences reported by other research teams, we decided to involve a patients' representative in the assessment and analysis of the evidence retrieved in the literature in order to achieve a more patient-centered evaluation of the therapies. Evidence confirms that an effective treatment of Ménière's disease is still missing, but recent discoveries on the microvascular etiology of Ménière's disease may be assimilated by new evidence-based therapeutic approaches.
meta-analysis	AUD380753	Improving Health-Related Quality of Life in Single-Sided Deafness: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Improving Health-Related Quality of Life in Single-Sided Deafness: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Unilateral severe-to-profound hearing loss, or single-sided deafness (SSD), impairs listening abilities supported by the use of two ears, including speech perception in background noise and sound localisation. Hearing-assistive devices can aid listening by re-routing sounds from the impaired to the non-impaired ear or by restoring input to the impaired ear. A systematic review of the literature examined the impact of hearing-assistive devices on the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of adults with SSD as measured using generic and disease-specific instruments. A majority of studies used observational designs, and the quality of the evidence was low to moderate. Only two studies used generic instruments. A mixed-effect meta-analysis of disease-specific measures suggested that hearing-assistive devices have a small-to-medium impact on HRQoL. The Speech, Spatial and Qualities of Hearing Scale and the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) were identified as instruments that are sensitive to device-related changes in disease-specific and generic HRQoL, respectively.
systematic-review	AUD443363	"A Systematic Review to Define the Speech and Language Benefit of Early (&lt;12 Months) Pediatric Cochlear Implantation A Systematic Review to Define the Speech and Language Benefit of Early (&lt;12 Months) Pediatric Cochlear Implantation Objective: This review aimed to evaluate the additional benefit of pediatric cochlear implantation before 12 months of age considering improved speech and language development and auditory performance. Materials and Methods: We conducted a search in PubMed, EMBASE and CINAHL databases and included studies comparing groups with different ages at implantation and assessing speech perception and speech production, receptive language and/or auditory performance. We included studies with a high directness of evidence (DoE). Results: We retrieved 3,360 articles. Ten studies with a high DoE were included. Four articles with medium DoE were discussed in addition. Six studies compared infants implanted before 12 months with children implanted between 12 and 24 months. Follow-up ranged from 6 months to 9 years. Cochlear implantation before the age of 2 years is beneficial according to one speech perception score (phonetically balanced kindergarten combined with consonant-nucleus-consonant) but not on Glendonald auditory screening procedure scores. Implantation before 12 months resulted in better speech production (diagnostic evaluation of articulation and phonology and infant-toddler meaningful auditory integration scale), auditory performance (Categories of Auditory Performance-II score) and receptive language scores (2 out of 5; Preschool Language Scale combined with oral and written language skills and Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test). Conclusions: The current best evidence lacks level 1 evidence studies and consists mainly of cohort studies with a moderate to high risk of bias. Included studies showed consistent evidence that cochlear implantation should be performed early in life, but evidence is inconsistent on all speech and language outcome measures regarding the additional benefit of implantation before the age of 12 months. Long-term follow-up studies are necessary to provide insight on additional benefits of early pediatric cochlear implantation."
research-article	AUD444243	Long-Term Outcome Data in Patients following One Year's Use of a Fully Implantable Active Middle Ear Implant Long-Term Outcome Data in Patients following One Year's Use of a Fully Implantable Active Middle Ear Implant This study examined the safety and efficacy of a fully implantable active middle ear (AMEI) system. Outcome measures assessed AMEI performance compared with an optimally fitted conventional hearing aid (CHA). Fifty adults with stable, symmetric moderate-to-severe sensorineural hearing loss were implanted at 9 ambulatory settings. Consonant-Nucleus-Consonant (CNC) words, Bamford-Kowel-Bench Speech in Noise test (BKB-SIN), Abbreviated Profile of Hearing Aid Benefit (APHAB), and unaided hearing thresholds in the implanted ear were compared to baseline measures obtained using a personal CHA. Changes in thresholds were observed from pre- to 12-month postoperative assessments. CNC word scores decreased (within 10%), and the BKB-SIN showed no change from pre- to 12-month postoperative time points. The APHAB revealed improvement. Findings suggest no difference in performance between an appropriately fit CHA and the AMEI at 12 months. This study indicates AMEIs have the potential to help individuals who choose not to use CHAs.
review-article	AUD450937	Differential Expression of Bcl-2 in the Cochlea and Auditory Cortex of a Mouse Model of Age-Related Hearing Loss Differential Expression of Bcl-2 in the Cochlea and Auditory Cortex of a Mouse Model of Age-Related Hearing Loss Bcl-2, the first gene shown to be involved in apoptosis, is a potent regulator of cell survival and known to have protective effects against a variety of age-related diseases. However, the possible relationship between hearing and Bcl-2 expression in the cochlea or auditory cortex of C57BL/6 mice, a mouse model of age-related hearing loss, is still unknown. Using RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis, our results show that Bcl-2 is strongly expressed in the inner hair cells and spiral ganglion neurons of young mice. In addition, moderate Bcl-2 expression is also detected in the outer hair cells and in the neurons of the auditory cortex. A significant reduction of Bcl-2 expression in the cochlea or auditory cortex is also associated with elevated hearing thresholds and hair cell loss during aging. The expression pattern of Bcl-2 in the peripheral and central auditory systems suggests that Bcl-2 may play an important role in auditory function serving as a protective molecule against age-related hearing loss.
systematic-review	AUD486274	Effect of Antioxidant Vitamins as Adjuvant Therapy for Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss: Systematic Review Study Effect of Antioxidant Vitamins as Adjuvant Therapy for Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss: Systematic Review Study Importance: Sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSNHL) is an otological emergency of unknown etiology. Recent reports showed that antioxidant drugs can benefit patients with SSNHL. This study attempted to evaluate the effect of adding antioxidant vitamins as an adjuvant therapy alongside with corticosteroids. Objective: To evaluate the effects of the 3 major antioxidant vitamins (A, C, and E) as an adjuvant therapy, administered with corticosteroids, for the treatment of SSNHL in adult patients (≥18 years). Data Sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, PubMed, Web of Science and Cochrane electronic databases from January 1, 1995, through September 25, 2017. Study Selection: Published studies of adult patients who received antioxidant vitamins (A, C, E, or any combination of these vitamins) as an adjuvant therapy in addition to the regular treatment (corticosteroids) for SSNHL. Quality assessment was performed using the Cochrane Collaboration Tool for Assessing Risk of Bias. Data Extraction: Each study had a control group (conventional treatment + placebo) and a trial group (antioxidant vitamin(s) + conventional treatment). Results: From 446 manuscripts identified in the literature, 3 studies were included in the review with 279 patients. The most common vitamins used to treat SSNHL were the 3 major antioxidant vitamins A, C, and E, combined sometimes with other antioxidants such as selenium. Conclusions and Relevance: The success of the treatment is increased in patients who received antioxidant vitamins in combination with conventional therapy.
research-article	AUD494021	Visual Analogue Scales as a Tool for Initial Assessment of Tinnitus Severity: Psychometric Evaluation in a Clinical Population Visual Analogue Scales as a Tool for Initial Assessment of Tinnitus Severity: Psychometric Evaluation in a Clinical Population The aim of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of patient-reported visual analogue scale (VAS) ratings. All of the participants (100 Polish-speaking adults) completed a Tinnitus Functional Index (TFI) once and a 4-component VAS twice over a period of 3 days. Spearman’s correlation coefficients between the VAS score and global TFI ranged from ρ = 0.52 for VAS-coping (VAS-C) to ρ = 0.81 for VAS-annoyance (VAS-A). Using the Bland-Altman method, the agreement ranged from 93% for VAS-A to 96% for VAS-distress (VAS-D). Interclass correlation coefficients ranged from 0.67 for VAS-C to 0.90 for VAS-A. The VAS cutoff points representing significant tinnitus severity ranged from 45 points for VAS-C to 66 points for VAS-D. VAS scales are a valid and reliable brief screening tool for obtaining quick information about tinnitus.
research-article	AUD494247	Dynamic Postural Stability and Hearing Preservation after Cochlear Implantation Dynamic Postural Stability and Hearing Preservation after Cochlear Implantation Objectives: (1) To assess dynamic postural stability before and after cochlear implantation using a functional gait assessment (FGA). (2) To evaluate the correlation between loss of residual hearing and changes in dynamic postural stability after cochlear implantation. Methods: Candidates for first-sided cochlear implantation were prospectively included. The FGAs and pure-tone audiograms were performed before and 4–6 weeks after cochlear implantation. Results: Twenty-three subjects were included. Forty-eight percent (n = 11) showed FGA performance below the age-referenced norm before surgery. One subject had a clinically relevant decrease of the FGA score after cochlear implantation. No significant difference between the mean pre- and postoperative FGA scores was detectable (p = 0.4). Postoperative hearing loss showed no correlation with a change in FGA score after surgery (r = 0.3, p = 0.3, n = 16). Conclusion: Single-sided cochlear implantation does not adversely affect dynamic postural stability 5 weeks after surgery. Loss of functional residual hearing is not correlated with a decrease in dynamic postural stability.
research-article	AUE442016	The Expression of TNFα, IL-6, IL-2 and IL-8 in the Serum of Patients with Idiopathic Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss: Possible Prognostic Factors of Response to Corticosteroid Treatment The Expression of TNFα, IL-6, IL-2 and IL-8 in the Serum of Patients with Idiopathic Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss: Possible Prognostic Factors of Response to Corticosteroid Treatment Introduction: Idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss (ISSNHL) remains one of the major unsolved otologic emergencies. A viral infection, a systemic inflammatory disorder, as well as physical, mental and metabolic stress can trigger an innate immune response in the inner ear resulting in ISSNHL. Proinflammatory cytokines play a central role in this cochlear immunological cascade. Objective: To examine the expression of proinflammatory cytokines in the serum of patients with ISSNHL in correlation with the therapeutic outcome of intravenous administration of corticosteroids. Method: Forty-three patients primarily diagnosed with ISSNHL underwent intravenous corticosteroid treatment for 8 days. The expression of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) was detected with the use of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in serum specimens on the 1st and 8th day of treatment and it was correlated with the treatment outcome. Results: TNFα reduction and IL-6 increase strongly correlate with a good therapeutic result [&
review-article	BBE297522	"Cryptic Regulation of Vasotocin Neuronal Activity but Not Anatomy by Sex Steroids and Social Stimuli in Opportunistic Desert Finches Cryptic Regulation of Vasotocin Neuronal Activity but Not Anatomy by Sex Steroids and Social Stimuli in Opportunistic Desert Finches In most vertebrate species, the production of vasotocin (VT; non-mammals) and vasopressin (VP; mammals) in the medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTm) waxes and wanes with seasonal reproductive state; however, opportunistically breeding species might need to maintain high levels of this behaviorally relevant neuropeptide year-round in anticipation of unpredictable breeding opportunities. We here provide support for this hypothesis and demonstrate that these neurons are instead regulated ‘cryptically’ via hormonal regulation of their activity levels, which may be rapidly modified to adjust VT signaling. First, we show that combined treatment of male and female zebra finches (Estrildidae: Taeniopygia guttata) with the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide and the aromatase inhibitor 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione does not alter the expression of VT immunoreactivity within the BSTm; however, both hormonal treatment and social housing environment (same-sex versus mixed-sex) alter VT colocalization with the immediate early gene product Fos (a proxy marker of neural activation) in the BSTm. In a second experiment, manipulations of estradiol (E2) levels with the aromatase inhibitor letrozole (LET) or subcutaneous E2 implants failed to alter colocalization, suggesting that the colocalization effects in experiment 1 were solely androgenic. LET treatment also did not affect VT immunoreactivity in a manner reversible by E2 treatment. Finally, comparisons of VT immunoreactivity in breeding and nonbreeding individuals of several estrildid species demonstrate that year-round stability of VT immunoreactivity is found only in highly opportunistic species, and is therefore not essential to the maintenance of long-term pair bonds, which are ubiquitous in the Estrildidae."
review-article	BBE447441	Telencephalic Neuronal Activation Associated with Spatial Memory in the Terrestrial Toad Rhinella arenarum: Participation of the Medial Pallium during Navigation by Geometry Telencephalic Neuronal Activation Associated with Spatial Memory in the Terrestrial Toad Rhinella arenarum: Participation of the Medial Pallium during Navigation by Geometry Amphibians are central to discussions of vertebrate evolution because they represent the transition from aquatic to terrestrial life, a transition with profound consequences for the selective pressures shaping brain evolution. Spatial navigation is one class of behavior that has attracted the interest of comparative neurobiologists because of the relevance of the medial pallium/hippocampus, yet, surprisingly, in this regard amphibians have been sparsely investigated. In the current study, we trained toads to locate a water goal relying on the boundary geometry of a test environment (Geometry-Only) or boundary geometry coupled with a prominent, visual feature cue (Geometry-Feature). Once learning had been achieved, the animals were given one last training session and their telencephali were processed for c-Fos activation. Compared to control toads exposed to the test environment for the first time, geometry-only toads were found to have increased neuronal labeling in the medial pallium, the presumptive hippocampal homologue, while geometry-feature toads were found to have increased neuronal labeling in the medial, dorsal, and lateral pallia. The data indicate medial pallial participation in guiding navigation by environmental geometry and lateral, and to a lesser extent dorsal, pallial participation in guiding navigation by a prominent visual feature. As such, participation of the medial pallium/hippocampus in spatial cognition appears to be a conserved feature of terrestrial vertebrates even if their life history is still tied to water, a brain-behavior feature seemingly at least as ancient as the evolutionary transition to life on land.
review-article	BMH453106	Therapeutic Complement Targeting in ANCA-Associated Vasculitides and Thrombotic Microangiopathy Therapeutic Complement Targeting in ANCA-Associated Vasculitides and Thrombotic Microangiopathy Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitides (AAVs) are a group of systemic autoimmune disorders characterized by necrotizing inflammation of medium-to-small vessels, a relative paucity of immune deposits, and an association with detectable circulating ANCAs. AAVs include granulomatosis with polyangiitis (renamed from Wegener's granulomatosis), microscopic polyangiitis, and eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss syndrome). Until recently, AAVs have not been viewed as complement-mediated disorders. However, recent findings predominantly from animal studies demonstrated a crucial role of the complement system in the pathogenesis of AAVs. Complement activation or defects in its regulation have been described in an increasing number of acquired or genetically driven forms of thrombotic microangiopathy. Coinciding with this expanding spectrum of complement-mediated diseases, the question arises as to which AAV patients might benefit from a complement-targeted therapy. Therapies directed against the complement system point to the necessity of a genetic workup of genes of complement components and regulators in patients with AAV. Genetic testing together with pluripotent stem cells and bioinformatics tools may broaden our approach to the treatment of patients with aggressive forms of AAV.
systematic-review	BMH454980	Treatment of Hypernatremia in Breastfeeding Neonates: A Systematic Review Treatment of Hypernatremia in Breastfeeding Neonates: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: Hypernatremic dehydration in term neonates is associated with inadequate fluid intake, usually related to insufficient lactation. The use of hypotonic fluids is appropriate to dilute serum sodium (SNa), but cerebral edema may develop when it happens abruptly. Our objective was to clarify how to correct hypernatremic dehydration properly. Methods: The following databases were searched, limited to studies published until January 31st, 2016: Clinical Trials, MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, LILACS, and the Cochrane Library. We included open-label trials, nonrandomized controlled trials, or prospective and retrospective case series evaluating relevant outcomes. Information regarding the way of administering the treatment, type of fluid used, rates of complications and outcomes, as well as the rate of SNa reduction were collected. Results: Searches yielded 771 articles: 64 had the full text reviewed and 9 were included. No randomized clinical trials or systematic reviews focusing on treatment of hypernatremic dehydration and its outcomes were found. We found a scarcity of high quality studies and great methodology heterogeneity. Conclusions: More severe hypernatremia is at greater risk of causing severe adverse effects of treatment. There is no consensus about the optimal rate of SNa drop in this population, but a slower correction appears to be safer. Questions as when parenteral fluids are indicated remain unanswered.
systematic-review	BMH472146	Trends in Gene Expression Profiling for Prostate Cancer Risk Assessment: A Systematic Review Trends in Gene Expression Profiling for Prostate Cancer Risk Assessment: A Systematic Review Objectives: The aim of the study is to review biotechnology advances in gene expression profiling on prostate cancer (PCa), focusing on experimental platform development and gene discovery, in relation to different study designs and outcomes in order to understand how they can be exploited to improve PCa diagnosis and clinical management. Methods: We conducted a systematic literature review on gene expression profiling studies through PubMed/MEDLINE and Web of Science between 2000 and 2016. Tissue biopsy and clinical gene profiling studies with different outcomes (e.g., recurrence, survival) were included. Results: Over 3,000 papers were screened and 137 full-text articles were selected. In terms of technology used, microarray is still the most popular technique, increasing from 50 to 70% between 2010 and 2015, but there has been a rise in the number of studies using RNA sequencing (13% in 2015). Sample sizes have increased, as well as the number of genes that can be screened all at once, but we have also observed more focused targeting in more recent studies. Qualitative analysis on the specific genes found associated with PCa risk or clinical outcomes revealed a large variety of gene candidates, with a few consistent cross-studies. Conclusions: The last 15 years of research in gene expression in PCa have brought a large volume of data and information that has been decoded only in part, but advancements in high-throughput sequencing technology are increasing the amount of data that can be generated. The variety of findings warrants the execution of both validation studies and meta-analyses. Genetic biomarkers have tremendous potential for early diagnosis of PCa and, if coupled with other diagnostics (e.g., imaging), can effectively be used to concretize less-invasive, personalized prediction of PCa risk and progression.
review-article	BMH480347	Can Treatment Adherence Be Improved by Using Rubin's Four Tendencies Framework to Understand a Patient's Response to Expectations Can Treatment Adherence Be Improved by Using Rubin's Four Tendencies Framework to Understand a Patient's Response to Expectations Within the context of poorer patient outcomes and rising healthcare costs, we need to better understand why many patients do not engage fully with their treatment plan. Movement away from talking about “compliance” towards “adherence” and “concordance” is evidence of a recognition that this is a two-way process. Whilst healthcare professionals expect patients to engage in treatment, equally, patients have expectations (whether positive or negative) of their treatment and their need for engagement. There is a need for an effective method that can specifically target those interventions that will provide the most benefit to individual patients and which, crucially, is easy and inexpensive to administer in everyday practice and widely applicable. Rubin's Four Tendencies model identifies a patient's “response to outer and inner expectations” as a key factor in adherence. The model therefore provides an opportunity to test such a targeted, patient-specific strategy and we present a call to action for research in this area.
review-article	BMH492929	Breast Cancer Recurrence Risk Assessment: Is Non-Invasive Monitoring an Option? Breast Cancer Recurrence Risk Assessment: Is Non-Invasive Monitoring an Option? Background: Metastatic breast cancer (MBC) represents a life-threatening disease with a median survival time of 18–24 months that often can only be treated palliatively. The majority of women suffering from MBC are those who had been previously diagnosed with locally advanced disease and subsequently experienced cancer recurrence in the form of metastasis. However, according to guidelines, no systemic follow-up for monitoring purposes is recommended for these women. The purpose of this article is to review current methods of recurrent risk assessment as well as non-invasive monitoring options for women at risk for distant disease relapse and metastasis formation. Methods: We used PubMed and national guidelines, such as the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), to find recently published studies on breast cancer recurrence risk assessment and systemic monitoring of breast cancer patients through non-invasive means. Results: The options for recurrence risk assessment of locally invasive breast cancer has improved due to diverse genetic tests, such as Oncotype DX, MammaPrint, the PAM50 (now known as the “Prosigna Test”) assay, EndoPredict (EP), and the Breast Cancer Index (BCI), which evaluate a women’s risk of relapse according to certain cancer-gene expression patterns. Different promising non-invasive urinary protein-based biomarkers with metastasis surveillance potential that have been identified are MMP-2, MMP-9, NGAL, and ADAM12. In particular, ααCTX, ββCTX, and NTX could help to monitor bone metastasis. Conclusion: In times of improved recurrence risk assessment of women with breast cancer, non-invasive biomarkers are urgently needed as potential monitoring options for women who have an increased risk of recurrence. Urine as a bioliquid of choice provides several advantages – it is non-invasive, can be obtained easily and frequently, and is economical. Promising biomarkers that could help to follow up women with increased recurrence risk have been identified. In order for them to be implemented in clinical usage and national guideline recommendations, further validation in larger independent cohorts will be needed.
review-article	BPU302722	Vascular Calcification and Cardiovascular Outcome in Dialysis Patients: The Role of Gene Polymorphisms Vascular Calcification and Cardiovascular Outcome in Dialysis Patients: The Role of Gene Polymorphisms Vascular calcification and accelerated atherosclerosis are major causes of death in hemodialysis (HD) patients. Epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation may be crucial determinants of cellular behavior in uremic conditions, determining an increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The common polymorphisms on different gene promoters have been related to increased coronary artery calcification and associated with cardiovascular outcome in HD population. In this review, we reported the gene polymorphisms of different proteins as negative prognostic risk factors for all-cause mortality in HD patients, independent of traditional risk factors. These data may have important implications for better understanding the pathogenesis of the increased mortality in this population.
systematic-review	BPU333845	Techniques of Extracorporeal Cytokine Removal: A Systematic Review of the Literature Techniques of Extracorporeal Cytokine Removal: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background and Aims: Attempts at achieving cytokine homeostasis include blood purification to deliver cytokine removal. Assessment of ex vivo studies for optimal operating conditions is a vital step. Methods: We conducted a systematic search for ex vivo studies on cytokine removal using known modalities of extracorporeal circulation. We selected 29 articles and analyzed data according to clearance, sieving coefficient, ultrafiltrate concentration and percentage removal. Results: We identified four main techniques for cytokine removal: standard techniques, high cut-off (HCO) techniques, adsorption techniques and combined plasma filtration adsorption. HCO hemofiltration (HCO/HF) showed greatest consistency in cytokine removal among all approaches. Mean albumin clearance with HCO filters was 3.74 ml/min. Conclusion: Ex vivo data support the view that HCO/HF is the most consistently effective approach in terms of sieving and clearance. Further investigation of HCO/HF in randomized controlled trials in animal models and humans seems desirable.
research-article	BPU346631	Effects of Increasing Diffusive Sodium Removal on Blood Pressure Control in Hemodialysis Patients with Optimal Dry Weight Effects of Increasing Diffusive Sodium Removal on Blood Pressure Control in Hemodialysis Patients with Optimal Dry Weight Background: Sodium, apart from volume, may have an independent effect on blood pressure (BP) regulation. Methods: Sixteen hypertensive hemodialysis patients were enrolled, who have achieved their dry weight assessed by bioimpedance methods, with pre-dialysis plasma sodium levels slightly higher than the facility dialysate sodium concentration 138 mmol/l. After a 1-month period of dialysis with standard dialysate sodium concentration of 138 mmol/l, the patients were followed up for a 4-month period with dialysate sodium set at 136 mmol/l. Results: Along with lowering dialysate sodium, there were significant decreases (-10 mm Hg and -6 mm Hg) in 44-hour ambulatory systolic and diastolic BP at 4 months. Interdialytic weight gain adjusted to the estimated dry weight mildly but significantly decreased (4.81 ± 1.51 vs. 4.36 ± 1.37%, p = 0.047). The post-dialysis volume parameters remained constant throughout the study period. Conclusion: In selected hypertensive hemodialysis patients with optimal dry weight, increasing diffusive sodium removal resulted in significant BP decrease. It was probably due to a volume-independent effect.
research-article	BPU347076	"The Relationship of NT-proBNP and Dialysis Parameters with Outcome of Incident Haemodialysis Patients: Results from the Membrane Permeability Outcome Study The Relationship of NT-proBNP and Dialysis Parameters with Outcome of Incident Haemodialysis Patients: Results from the Membrane Permeability Outcome Study Background/Aims: The association of raised levels of natriuretic peptides with elevated risk of mortality was investigated in the present analysis of the Membrane Permeability Outcome study. Methods: N-terminal probrain type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) was measured in 618 incident haemodialysis patients, randomised to either high-flux or low-flux. Characteristics of patients with NT-proBNP levels below or above the median were descriptively analysed and survival analysis was performed. Results: Median NT-proBNP value was 2,124 pg/ml, with 1,854 pg/ml in the high-flux and 2,919 pg/ml in the low-flux group. Survival probability was lowest in patients with both a history of cardiovascular disease and NT-proBNP values above the median (p &lt; 0.001). A multivariate Cox proportional hazard model showed interaction between presence of cardiovascular diseases and NT-proBNP levels above the median. Conclusions: NT-proBNP is an independent predictor of mortality also in incident haemodialysis patients. Lower concentrations associated with high-flux dialysis suggest a possible biological link to improved survival in this group."
systematic-review	BPU368975	Dietary Sodium Intake: Scientific Basis for Public Policy Dietary Sodium Intake: Scientific Basis for Public Policy Background/Aims: National and international agencies recommend a reduction in dietary sodium intake. However, some have questioned the wisdom of these policies. The goal of this report was to assess the findings and quality of studies that have examined the relationship between dietary sodium and both blood pressure and cardiovascular disease. Methods: Literature review of the available observational studies and randomized controlled trials, including systematic reviews and meta-analyses. Results: A large body of evidence from observational studies and clinical trials documents a direct relationship between dietary sodium intake and the level of blood pressure, especially in persons with a higher level of blood pressure, African-Americans, and those who are older or have comorbidity, including chronic kidney disease. A majority of the available observational reports support the presence of a direct relationship between dietary sodium intake and cardiovascular disease but the quality of the evidence according to most studies is poor. The limited information available from clinical trials is consistent with a beneficial effect of reduced sodium intake on incidence of cardiovascular disease. Conclusions: The scientific underpinning for policies to reduce the usual intake of dietary sodium is strong. In the United States and many other countries, addition of sodium during food processing has led to a very high average intake of dietary sodium, with almost everyone exceeding the recommended goals. National programs utilizing voluntary and mandatory approaches have resulted in a successful reduction in sodium intake. Even a small reduction in sodium consumption is likely to yield sizable improvement in population health. Video Journal Club ‘Cappuccino with Claudio Ronco' at www.karger.com/?doi=368975.
research-article	BPU442741	"Anemia Management in the China Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study Anemia Management in the China Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study Background: As the utilization of hemodialysis increases in China, it is critical to examine anemia management. Methods: Using data from the China Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS), we describe hemoglobin (Hgb) distribution and anemia-related therapies. Results: Twenty one percent of China's DOPPS patients had Hgb &lt;9 g/dl, compared with ≤10% in Japan and North America. A majority of medical directors targeted Hgb ≥11. Patients who were female, younger, or recently hospitalized had higher odds of Hgb &lt;9; those with insurance coverage or on twice weekly dialysis had lower odds of Hgb &lt;9. Iron use and erythropoietin-stimulating agents (ESAs) dose were modestly higher for patients with Hgb &lt;9 compared with Hgb in the range 10-12. Conclusion: A large proportion of hemodialysis patients in China's DOPPS do not meet the expressed Hgb targets. Less frequent hemodialysis, patient financial contribution, and lack of a substantial increase in ESA dose at lower Hgb concentrations may partially explain this gap. Video Journal Club ‘Cappuccino with Claudio Ronco' at http://www.karger.com/?doi=442741."
meta-analysis	BPU446272	"A Comparison of Transplant Outcomes in Peritoneal and Hemodialysis Patients: A Meta-Analysis A Comparison of Transplant Outcomes in Peritoneal and Hemodialysis Patients: A Meta-Analysis Background: Peritoneal dialysis (PD) and hemodialysis (HD) have been considered the 2 standard pre-transplant dialysis modalities in patients awaiting kidney transplantation. However, the impact of pretransplant dialysis on the short- and long-term post-transplant outcomes remains controversial. Methods: We searched PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane central register of controlled trials for this review. Twelve studies were identified by strict screening for the meta-analysis. Results: We found that pretransplant PD patients had a significantly lower incidence of delayed graft function than HD patients, with an OR 0.67 (95% CI 0.62-0.72, p &lt; 0.05). In contrast, there was no significant difference in the incidence of acute rejection, OR 0.96 (95% CI 0.75-1.16). Pretransplant PD had a better 5-year patient survival rate than HD, with a hazard ratio 0.86 (95% CI 0.79-0.95, p &lt; 0.05); however, there were no significant differences in the graft survival rate (p = 0.08). Conclusions: We found that PD was a better choice of pretransplant dialysis modality than HD. Video Journal Club ‘Cappuccino with Claudio Ronco' at http://www.karger.com/?doi=446272."
meta-analysis	BPU449242	"The Influence of Hemodialysis on T Regulatory Cells: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review The Influence of Hemodialysis on T Regulatory Cells: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review Aims: The study aimed to determine whether the available literature supports a positive or negative influence of dialysis on regulatory T-cells (Tregs). Methods: We performed a systematic search and a meta-analysis. Mean differences in Tregs number of chronic kidney disease stages G5 on dialysis patients (CKD G5D) and healthy controls (HCs) were compared. Random effects model was applied. The software used was general package for meta-analysis (version 4.3-0, depends R (≥2.9.1)). Results: Five studies were included in the meta-analysis. The mean difference in percentage of Tregs on CD4+ T-cells between CKD G5D and HCs was not statistically different. Moreover, CKD GFR stages G5 not on dialysis (CKD G5) versus HC (p = 0.002; mean difference in Treg percentage was -2.47% in CKD G5 vs. HC) and CKD G5 versus CKD G5D (not significant). Conclusion: This meta-analysis demonstrates an association between the uremic state and lower Tregs, and supports the hypothesis that hemodialysis alter Tregs. Our findings highlight the need for new clinical studies. Video Journal Club ‘Cappuccino with Claudio Ronco' at http://www.karger.com/?doi=449242."
meta-analysis	BPU452316	"Delayed Nephrology Consultation and High Mortality on Acute Kidney Injury: A Meta-Analysis Delayed Nephrology Consultation and High Mortality on Acute Kidney Injury: A Meta-Analysis Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a complex syndrome associated with substantial morbidity, mortality and costs. Despite advancements in diagnosis and care practice, AKI remains a disorder usually under/late-recognized with high mortality. One of the hidden reasons for poor outcome might be delayed nephrology consultation, with the involvement of the specialist only in severe stages of AKI when renal replacement therapy (RRT) is required. Methods: We searched PubMed, EMBASE and Cochrane central register for related work on the subject. Six studies were identified for the meta-analysis, correlating time of nephrology consultation and mortality in AKI. Results: We found that delayed nephrology consultation is associated with higher mortality in AKI, with an OR 0.79 (95% CI 0.48-1.10, p &lt; 0.05). Conclusion: Delayed nephrology consultation contributes to higher mortality in AKI. The early involvement of nephrologist may present an advantage in terms of early recognition, prevention and effective treatment of AKI. An early involvement of multidisciplinary task force may contribute to better treatment, before the preventable complications of AKI occur or an emergency RRT is required."
review-article	BPU452317	Optimal Role of the Nephrologist in the Intensive Care Unit Optimal Role of the Nephrologist in the Intensive Care Unit As advances in Critical Care Medicine continue, critically ill patients are surviving despite the severity of their illness. The incidence of acute kidney injury (AKI) has increased, and its impact on clinical outcomes as well as medical expenditures has been established. The role, indications and technological advancements of renal replacement therapy (RRT) have evolved, allowing more effective therapies with less complications. With these changes, Critical Care Nephrology has become an established specialty, and ongoing collaborations between critical care physicians and nephrologist have improved education of multi-disciplinary team members and patient care in the ICU. Multidisciplinary programs to support these changes have been stablished in some hospitals to maximize the delivery of care, while other programs have continue to struggle in their ability to acquire the necessary resources to maximize outcomes, educate their staff, and develop quality initiatives to evaluate and drive improvements. Clearly, the role of the nephrologist in the ICU has evolved, and varies widely among institutions. This special article will provide insights that will hopefully optimize the role of the nephrologist as the leader of the acute care nephrology program, as clinician for critically ill patients, and as teacher for all members of the health care team.
review-article	BPU452318	The Role of Nephrologist in the Intensive Care Unit The Role of Nephrologist in the Intensive Care Unit Participation by nephrologists is needed in most intensive care units, even when such units are ‘closed'. This participation should assist with diagnosis and management of intrinsic and complex renal diseases such as vasculitis, complex metabolic and electrolyte disorders including hyponatremia, and acute kidney injury (AKI) with and without underlying chronic kidney disease (CKD). Early nephrologist involvement will also facilitate transition to continuing care and follow-up after an episode of AKI, but may also assist in avoiding dialysis where treatment is futile. Management of AKI by intensivists should be in partnership with nephrologists to oversight and hopefully to minimize progression to CKD.
review-article	BPU452402	Acute Kidney Injury Risk Assessment and the Nephrology Rapid Response Team Acute Kidney Injury Risk Assessment and the Nephrology Rapid Response Team Acute kidney Injury (AKI) is a serious medical condition affecting more than 10 million people around the world annually and resulting in poor outcomes. It has been suggested that late recognition of the syndrome may lead to delayed interventions with increased morbidity and mortality. Early diagnosis and timely therapeutic strategies may be the cornerstone of future improvement in outcomes. The purpose of this article is to provide a practical model to identify patients at high risk for AKI in different environments, with the goal to prevent AKI. We describe the AKI Risk Assessment (ARA) as a proposed algorithm that systematically evaluates the patient in high-risk situations of AKI in a simple way no matter where the patient is located, and allows different medical specialists to approach patients as a team with a nephrologist to improve outcomes. The goal of the nephrology rapid response team (NRRT) is to prevent AKI or start treatment if AKI is already diagnosed as a consequence of progressive events that can lead to progressive deterioration of kidney tissues and eventual decline in renal function and to ensure appropriate follow-up of patients at risk for progressive chronic kidney disease after the episode of AKI. Prevention is the key to avoid mortality and morbidity associated with AKI. Integration of these assessment tools in a global methodology that includes a multi-disciplinary team (NRRT) is critical to success. Video Journal Club ‘Cappuccino with Claudio Ronco' at http://www.karger.com/?doi=452402.
meta-analysis	BPU453444	Effects of Vitamin E-Coated versus Conventional Membranes in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effects of Vitamin E-Coated versus Conventional Membranes in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Introduction: Accruing evidence suggests that vitamin E-coated membranes (ViE-m) might improve the clinical management of chronic hemodialysis (HD) patients. Methods: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of RCTs comparing ViE-m to conventional HD. Endpoints of interest were a series of biomarkers pertaining to anemia status, inflammation, oxidative stress and dialysis efficacy/status. Results: Sixty studies were included. ViE-m significantly improved the Erythropoietin Resistance Index but had no impact on other anemia parameters. As for oxidative stress and inflammation, ViE-m produced a significant decrease in interleukin-6 levels, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, plasma and red blood cell (RBC) malonylaldehyde and a significant increase in blood and RBC vitamin E. Conversely, ViE-m use had no impact on lipid profile, dialysis adequacy, blood pressure, albumin and uric acid. Conclusions: ViE-m might ameliorate anemia management by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation. Benefits of these bio-membranes on harder clinical outcomes are uncertain and need to be investigated by future, targeted trials.
review-article	BPU453577	Statins and the Kidney: Friend or Foe? Statins and the Kidney: Friend or Foe? Statins essentially are cholesterol-lowering drugs that are extensively prescribed for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Compelling evidence suggests that the beneficial effects of statins may not only be due to controlling cholesterol levels but also due to a pleiotropic cholesterol-independent anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, endothelial-protective and plaque-stabilizing activity. Along this line, statins may also exert acute and long-term effects on renal function. We present a narrative literature review that summarizes arguments in favour or against the preventive and/or therapeutic use of statins in kidney-related diseases or complications. We also highlight the ongoing controversy regarding statin therapy in chronic and end-stage kidney disease.
review-article	BPU454669	Colchicine in Renal Medicine: New Virtues of an Ancient Friend Colchicine in Renal Medicine: New Virtues of an Ancient Friend Colchicine is a plant-derived alkaloid that disrupts the cell microtubule system and accumulates in neutrophils, inhibiting neutrophil adhesion and recruitment. Colchicine has been used extensively in the prevention and treatment of gouty arthritis attacks, familial Mediterranean fever attacks and resultant AA amyloidosis, and recurrent pericarditis. Colchicine also disrupts the intracellular traffic of additional inflammatory and fibrosis mediators. Renal fibrosis is the final common pathway of chronic renal disease. Colchicine had anti-fibrotic effects in experimental diabetic nephropathy, renal mass reduction, and cyclosporine nephrotoxicity among others and is undergoing clinical trials for non-diabetic metabolic syndrome and diabetic nephropathy. In this review, we summarize the anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic properties of colchicine in experimental and clinical studies in renal diseases or other fibrotic disease processes with renal consequences. We also discuss the potential future uses of colchicine in renal medicine and challenges faced with its use in patients with impaired kidney function.
review-article	BPU475458	Increasing Haemodialytic Clearances as Residual Renal Function Declines: An Incremental Approach Increasing Haemodialytic Clearances as Residual Renal Function Declines: An Incremental Approach Many patients with chronic kidney disease start undergoing thrice-weekly haemodialysis (HD), aiming for an HD sessional dialyzer urea clearance target, irrespective of whether they have residual renal function (RRF). While increasing sessional dialyzer urea clearance above a target of 1.2 has not been shown to improve patient survival, it has been shown that the preservation of RRF improves patient self-reported outcomes and survival. Observational studies have suggested that initiating twice-weekly HD schedules leads to greater preservation of RRF. This has led to the concept of following an incremental approach to initiating HD, steadily increasing the amount of weekly dialyzer clearance as RRF decreases. Incremental dialysis practice requires the regular assessment of RRF to prevent inadequate delivery of dialysis treatment. Once RRF is lost, then the dialysis schedule and modality need to be adjusted to try to increase the middle-sized solute clearance and protein-bound toxins.
case-report	BPU493177	Anatomy Revisited: Hemodialysis Catheter Malposition into the Chest Anatomy Revisited: Hemodialysis Catheter Malposition into the Chest In most situations, central catheters are implanted in the right jugular vein as initial access for hemodialysis. However, after repeated punctures, the proximal vessels become stenosed and thrombosed and misplacement is likely to occur. Correct catheter position in the vein can be easily ascertained with X-ray or cross-sectional CT imaging. In this report, we describe the case of a 77-year-old patient on chronic hemodialysis via catheter due to arteriovenous fistula dysfunction. We placed a cuffed-tunneled hemodialysis catheter in the left internal jugular vein. Malpositioning of the catheter led to perforation of the great veins and migration of the catheter tip into the chest. It is important to be aware of the risk of potential incorrect positioning of dialysis catheters. Due to the stenosis and fragility of the vessel wall, perforation may occur. In cases of doubt, correct placement of large-bore catheters via the internal jugular vein should be verified by means of appropriate imaging before hemodialysis is performed.
review-article	BPU493523	A New Series of Sorbent Devices for Multiple Clinical Purposes: Current Evidence and Future Directions A New Series of Sorbent Devices for Multiple Clinical Purposes: Current Evidence and Future Directions Adsorption is an extracorporeal technique utilized for blood purification. It complements convection and diffusion (the main modalities of solute removal). It involves the passage of blood (or plasma) through an adsorption cartridge, where solutes are removed by direct binding to the sorbent material. Over the years, new adsorption cartridges, with improved characteristics have been developed. Furthermore, the therapeutic applications of adsorption have expanded. These now involve the treatment of inflammatory conditions, chronic uremic symptoms, and autoimmune disease, in addition to intoxication, which was once considered the classical indication for adsorption therapy. HA130, HA230, and HA330 (Jafron, Zhuhai City, China) are among the widely used adsorption cartridges in China. There has been sufficient body of evidence to support their effectiveness and safety. In this review, we aim to highlight their main clinical applications.
research-article	BPU494580	Disaster Management in a Nephrology Service: Lessons Learned from Hurricane Maria Disaster Management in a Nephrology Service: Lessons Learned from Hurricane Maria Background: Puerto Rico suffered a major humanitarian ­crisis after Hurricane Maria. We describe our experience with patients with renal disease in an academic medical center. Summary: A comprehensive emergency response plan should be developed, shared and discussed with the team and the patients prior to the hurricane. The needs of the staff should not be ignored to ensure their ability to participate as responders. Physical damage to facilities, lack of basic services, shortage of disposable products, and the inability to get to treatment centers are the most common threats. Preemptive dialysis can avoid serious complications. A contingency plan to move patients to another center should be prearranged in case the unit is rendered nonfunctional after the storm. Patients must receive preventive education about fluid and dietary restrictions and the possible use of potassium binding drugs if they cannot reach a dialysis unit. A list of alternative drugs that could be used if patients are not able to fill their medications is required. The Internet and social media proved to be an invaluable communication tool. A registry of patients with updated contact information, as well as contact information for relatives and a physical address where an emergency rescue team can be dispatched is essential. Water safety should be reinforced. Key Message: Our experience showed us that preparing for the worst is not enough. Advanced planning of a streamlined response is the best tactic to decrease harm.
review-article	BRC297717	High-Mobility Group A (HMGA) Proteins and Breast Cancer High-Mobility Group A (HMGA) Proteins and Breast Cancer The high-mobility group A (HMGA) protein family includes HMGA1a, HMGA1b and HMGA1c, which are encoded by the same gene through alternative splicing, and the closely related HMGA2 protein. HMGA proteins have been found to be abundant in several malignant neoplasias, including colorectal, prostate, cervical, lung, thyroid and breast carcinoma. HMGA proteins can be ideal candidates for the identification of new prognosis and diagnosis factors with non-invasive methods. To provide some clarity regarding the abundance of articles on this topic, here we focus on the relationship between HMGA proteins and breast cancer and their clinical perspective in the development of new therapeutic strategies.
review-article	BRC297775	Role of Breast Ultrasound for the Detection and Differentiation of Breast Lesions Role of Breast Ultrasound for the Detection and Differentiation of Breast Lesions Diagnosis of breast cancer has been widely improved since the development of high-resolution ultrasound equipment. In the past, ultrasound was only considered useful for the diagnosis of cysts. Meanwhile, it improves the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant lesions, local preoperative staging and guided interventional diagnosis. In dense breasts, mammography has limited sensitivity. Furthermore, women with dense parenchyma have a highly increased risk of breast cancer development. Ultrasound is useful to examine dense breast tissue. Recent studies have shown that the detection of small cancers with high-resolution ultrasound is increased by 3–4 cancers per 1,000 women without clinical or mammographic abnormalities. Furthermore, stage distribution is similar between mammographically and sonographically detected carcinomas. Ultrasound is routinely used for curative diagnosis, to overcome the limitations of mammography. However, within the mammographic screening in Germany, breast density is not considered as important. Ultrasound is only used if a suspicious lesion is detected by mammography. Interestingly, 2 years ago, a screening project started in Austria in which ultrasound is always added in cases of dense breasts. Preliminary data show that the detection of additional carcinomas is increased in the same order as shown in previous studies. Therefore, an improved cancer detection and differentiation can be expected with high-resolution ultrasound.
review-article	BRC298962	NHERF1/EBP50 in Breast Cancer: Clinical Perspectives NHERF1/EBP50 in Breast Cancer: Clinical Perspectives Na+/H+ exchanger regulatory factor 1 (NHERF1) is a postsynaptic density 95/disc-large/zona occludens (PDZ) domain-containing protein that recruits membrane receptors/transporters and cytoplasmic signaling proteins into functional complexes. NHERF1 expression has been demonstrated to be altered in breast cancer, but its role in mammary cancerogenesis and progression remains still undefined. In this paper, we review what is known on the pathological role and the potential clinical application of NHERF1 protein in breast cancer. Recent evidence shows that an increased cytoplasmic expression of NHERF1 suggests a key role of its localization/compartmentalization in defining cancerogenesis, progression, and invasion. NHERF1 overexpression is associated with increasing tumor cytohistological grade, aggressive clinical behavior, unfavorable prognosis, and increased tumor hypoxia. Moreover, NHERF1 co-localizes with the oncogenic receptor HER2/neu in HER2/neu-overexpressing carcinoma and in distant metastases. These data make NHERF1 also a potential candidate of clinical relevance for anti-HER2/neu therapy.
systematic-review	BRC360928	Should a Drain Be Placed in Early Breast Cancer Surgery? Should a Drain Be Placed in Early Breast Cancer Surgery? Background: The current surgical debate has led to a reduction in the extent of surgery performed and thereby to a reduced occurrence of surgical trauma and, over the recent years, reduced seroma formation. This reduction in surgical procedures calls the need for a drain into question. Method: Using Google Scholar and the National Library of Medicine (PubMed), a literature review was performed on systematic reviews and meta-analyses regarding breast cancer surgery ± axillary dissection. Additionally, randomized trials for the time period after the last systematic review were included and evaluated according to the Jadad score. Results: The search returned 5 systematic reviews, in which a total of 1,075 patients were included (537 cases and 538 controls). Since the last review, no prospective randomized trial meeting the inclusion criteria has been published. The current reviews conclude that insertion of a drain is associated with a longer hospital stay and reduced seroma formation. The data regarding wound infection and drain insertion is inconclusive. The omission of a drain is associated with early discharge, reduced postsurgical pain, and early mobilization, but also with an increase in out-patient seroma aspirations. Conclusion: The omission of a drain is possible in early breast cancer surgery (wide local excision and sentinel node biopsy) with adequate surgical techniques and instruments.
meta-analysis	BRC368431	"Local Breast Cancer Recurrence after Mastectomy and Breast-Conserving Surgery for Paget's Disease: A Meta-Analysis Local Breast Cancer Recurrence after Mastectomy and Breast-Conserving Surgery for Paget's Disease: A Meta-Analysis Background: Paget's disease (PD) of the breast is a rare presentation of breast malignancy. Mastectomy has been considered the standard of care, but several studies have shown that breast-conserving surgery (BCS) with radiotherapy is an alternative option. According to the literature, the total recurrence rate is as high as 20-40%. In an effort to enable a rational therapy decision, we compiled and analyzed the available data on PD. Methods: Pubmed, Web of Knowledge, and China Journal Net were searched for studies concerning treatment for PD between 1990 and 2013. A meta-analysis was performed to compare the effect of different treatments. Results: 7 studies with a total of 685 patients were included. The cumulative local recurrence rate was 7.6%, 5.6% among women undergoing mastectomy and 13.2% among those treated with BCS. Compared to the BCS group, mastectomy showed significant differences in terms of local recurrence (odds ratio = 0.38, 95% confidence interval 0.21-0.69; p = 0.001). Conclusion: Since not all currently available diagnostic and therapeutic options (magnetic resonance imaging, radiotherapy, tamoxifen) were systematically used in the studies included in this meta-analysis, it may be presumptuous to suggest that mastectomy is the right choice for all patients with PD in a modern interdisciplinary setting. Rather we can conclude that all efforts should be undertaken to assure local control since BCS is not equivalent to mastectomy in the treatment of PD."
research-article	BRC376563	"For the Benefit of Others: Reasons Why Women with Breast Cancer Participate in RCTs For the Benefit of Others: Reasons Why Women with Breast Cancer Participate in RCTs Background: Appreciation of the barriers and drivers affecting enrolment in randomised clinical trials (RCTs) is important for future trial design, communication and information provision. Methods: As part of an intervention to facilitate UK multidisciplinary team communication about RCTs, women with breast cancer who discussed trials with doctors or research nurses completed questionnaires examining i) clarity of trial information and ii) reasons for their trial decision. Results: 152 women completed the questionnaires; 113/152 (74%) consented to RCT enrolment. Patients' satisfaction with communication about the trial information was very good, irrespective of participation decisions. Acceptors' and decliners' responses to 9/16 statements concerning decisions about trial participation differed significantly. ‘Wanting to help with doctor's research' influenced 100% acceptors compared to 57% of decliners (p &lt; 0.001). Decliners were more likely to be ‘worried about randomisation' (20 vs. 39%; p &lt; 0.035) and to ‘want doctor to choose treatment rather than be randomised' (31 vs. 53%; p &lt; 0.031). Primary reason for trial acceptance was altruism; ‘I feel that others with my illness will benefit from the results of the trial', 58/108 (54%). Conclusion: A majority of women accepted RCT entry citing altruistic motivations as the primary driver for participation. Trial design and setting (metastatic or adjuvant) had little impact on participation."
systematic-review	BRC431029	Targeted Therapies in HER2-Positive Breast Cancer - a Systematic Review Targeted Therapies in HER2-Positive Breast Cancer - a Systematic Review About 20% of all breast cancer patients have a human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast tumor. This entity underwent an impressive change in prognosis, with notable improvement of progression-free survival and overall survival. Due to more aggressive tumors and no specific therapy, HER2 overexpression was historically seen as a negative prognostic marker, with worse prognosis and increased risk of recurrent disease. Trastuzumab, the first anti-HER2 antibody, revolutionized the systemic therapy options in HER2-positive breast cancer and initiated several targeted therapies and more personalized treatment strategies. Over the years, multiple HER2-targeting drugs stepped into clinical practice, for the curative as well as the metastatic situation. This review summarizes the targeted treatment options in HER2-positive breast cancer and their current impact in the clinical routine. Results of the most outstanding trials in HER2-targeted therapies and important ongoing trials are subsequently described for an up-to-date overview.
meta-analysis	BRC439007	"Hypofractionated Radiotherapy as Adjuvant Treatment in Early Breast Cancer. A Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Hypofractionated Radiotherapy as Adjuvant Treatment in Early Breast Cancer. A Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: Adjuvant radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery is indicated in the vast majority of breast cancer patients. Conventionally fractionated radiotherapy with 50 Gy in 25 fractions was considered standard of care for several decades. The recently publishes long-term results of randomized trials that have tested different moderately hypofractionated radiotherapy schedules that may change clinical practice. Patients and Methods: A Pubmed search was carried out to identify the relevant publications on hypofractionated radiotherapy in breast cancer. In total, 4 randomized controlled trials representing the results of 7,095 patients with 10 years of follow-up were identified. A meta-analysis on the primary end point ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence and a review of the toxicity data were performed. Results: Moderately hypofractionated radiotherapy using schedules such as 40 Gy in 15 fractions administered within 3 weeks are as efficient and safe as conventionally fractionated radiotherapy for most breast cancer patients who need adjuvant radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery. In patients aged &lt; 40 years, after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and if regional lymph node radiotherapy is indicated, further data are needed. Conclusion: Moderately hypofractionated radiotherapy can be recommended as standard treatment after breast-conserving surgery in the majority of breast cancer patients."
meta-analysis	BRC441436	"Triple Negative Breast Cancer versus Non-Triple Negative Breast Cancer Treated with Breast Conservation Surgery Followed by Radiotherapy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Triple Negative Breast Cancer versus Non-Triple Negative Breast Cancer Treated with Breast Conservation Surgery Followed by Radiotherapy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of breast conservation surgery (BCS) followed by radiotherapy (RT) in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) versus non-TNBC. Methods: We searched the MEDLINE and EMBASE databases from inception through March 31, 2014, using search terms related to TNBC, BCS, and RT. Studies comparing the efficacy of BCS followed by RT in TNBC versus non-TNBC were reviewed. Results: 5 studies including 2,922 non-TNBC and 510 TNBC cases were selected. The overall quality of included studies was deemed moderate to high. Compared with non-TNBC, the pooled relative risk of 5-year local relapse-free survival was 1.315 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.967-1.789; p = 0.008) for TNBC, and that of 5-year overall survival, regional relapse-free survival, and distant metastasis-free survival was 1.929 (95% CI 1.392-2.674; p = 0.000), 3.052 (95% CI 1.629-5.715; p = 0.000), and 2.407 (95% CI 1.910-3.034; p = 0.000), respectively. Conclusion: The local control rate of TNBC treated with BCS plus RT is similar to that of non-TNBC."
meta-analysis	BRC450626	"Local Recurrence after Breast-Conserving Surgery and Mastectomy Following Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Breast Cancer - a Meta-Analysis Local Recurrence after Breast-Conserving Surgery and Mastectomy Following Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Breast Cancer - a Meta-Analysis Background: Breast-conserving surgery (BCS) in patients with large tumors shrunk by neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NCT) remains controversial. We conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the local recurrence rates in locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) patients receiving NCT comparing BCS with mastectomy. Methods: Pubmed, Web of Knowledge, and Ovid's database were searched for studies concerning treatment for LABC from January 2000 to June 2015. A meta-analysis was performed to compare the recurrence rates of patients receiving BCS versus mastectomy following NCT. Results: 8 trials with a total of 3,215 patients were analyzed. The prevalence of local recurrence was 9.2% in the BCS group versus 8.3% in the mastectomy group without significant difference (odds ratio (OR) 1.07, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.28-1.48; p = 0.66). The 5-year local recurrence-free survival (LRFS) rate was lower in the mastectomy group than in the BCS group, but no significant difference was found between the 2 groups (OR 1.11, 95% CI 0.61-1.99; p = 0.74). Conclusion: BCS after NCT is safe in terms of local recurrence and LRFS in LABC women. Shrinking tumors with NCT provides the opportunity to apply BCS with no detriment to outcome."
review-article	BRC453133	The PI3K Pathway: Background and Treatment Approaches The PI3K Pathway: Background and Treatment Approaches Two-thirds of all breast cancer patients with metastases have a hormone receptor (HR)-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative subtype. Endocrine therapy is the treatment of choice in these patients since in addition to its effectiveness it can also maintain the patients' quality of life over a longer term. However, 44-62% of postmenopausal patients with metastatic breast carcinoma have primary tamoxifen resistance. After 3-5 years, 30-40% of the patients receiving tamoxifen treatment develop secondary resistance. Understanding the way in which resistance develops is therefore essential for developing treatment approaches that can prevent or reverse endocrine resistance. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway plays a central role here. As a result of the numerous interactions involved, complex issues arise that need to be taken into account in the development and use of therapeutic agents. In addition, this signaling pathway is the one that most frequently undergoes mutations in breast cancer. The prognostic and predictive significance of individual mutations has not yet been fully explained, but it might provide a basis for patient selection in clinical studies. Initial research results on the use of PI3K inhibitors suggest that this may be a highly promising therapeutic approach, with an acceptable side effect profile.
review-article	BRC453569	PD-1 and PD-L1 Immune Checkpoint Blockade to Treat Breast Cancer PD-1 and PD-L1 Immune Checkpoint Blockade to Treat Breast Cancer Immune checkpoint inhibition represents a major recent breakthrough in the treatment of malignant diseases including breast cancer. Blocking the programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) and its ligand, PD-L1, has shown impressive antitumor activity and may lead to durable long-term disease control, especially in the triple-negative subtypes of breast cancer (TNBC). Although immune checkpoint blockade is generally well tolerated, specific immune-related adverse events (irAEs) may occur. This review summarizes the clinical efficacy, perspectives, and future challenges of using PD-1/PD-L1-directed antibodies in the treatment of breast cancer.
review-article	BRC453603	HER2-Orientated Therapy in Early and Metastatic Breast Cancer HER2-Orientated Therapy in Early and Metastatic Breast Cancer Due to the enhanced understanding of molecular oncology and signaling pathways in breast cancer (BC), therapy management has undergone a major transformation, especially with the emergence of treatment tailored to individual disease characteristics. In the case of HER2-positive early or metastatic BC, targeted therapies are well established and remain a major focus of ongoing research. The introduction of anti-HER2 biologicals such as trastuzumab, pertuzumab, and T-DM1 has made targeted and personalized treatment possible and has clearly improved disease-free and overall survival in patients with HER2-positive BC. Moreover, neoadjuvant chemotherapy represents a well-established and often favored option for patients with operable BC and a clear indication for postoperative chemotherapy (such as HER2-positive BC). Other trials are trying to identify additional surrogate markers for therapy response and clinical outcome in the neoadjuvant setting and that way open up new perspectives with a possible de-escalation of classical treatment in favor of targeted therapy.
meta-analysis	BRC454983	Protecting Effects of Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Agonist on Chemotherapy-Induced Ovarian Damage in Premenopausal Breast Cancer Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protecting Effects of Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Agonist on Chemotherapy-Induced Ovarian Damage in Premenopausal Breast Cancer Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: There is no universal consensus on whether gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist could protect chemotherapy-induced ovarian damage in premenopausal breast cancer patients. This meta-analysis was conducted to estimate the protective effects of GnRH agonist on premenopausal breast cancer patients in details. Methods: PubMed, Cochrane Library, Embase, CNKI and the Chinese Wangfang Database, conference proceedings and clinical trials were searched to find studies reported since 2000. Heterogeneity for the eligible data was assessed and a pooled odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated. Results: Resumption of menses rate was improved in the GnRH agonist and chemotherapy-combination groups versus chemotherapy-alone groups (OR = 1.36, 95% CI: 1.19-1.56). Furthermore, the results indicated that spontaneous pregnancy rate was improved in the experimental groups versus the controls (OR = 1.90, 95% CI: 1.06-3.41). In addition, no publication bias was found using a Begg's funnel plot. Conclusion: The results of the current meta-analysis indicate that a GnRH agonist could improve resumption of menses rate and pregnancy rate for premenopausal breast cancer patients. However, more evaluation may be considered to prove this theory.
review-article	BRC477896	Magnetic Resonance Imaging after Breast Oncoplastic Surgery: An Update Magnetic Resonance Imaging after Breast Oncoplastic Surgery: An Update Breast-oncoplastic surgery, allowing local tumor control and a better cosmetic outcome, is oncologically safe when applied to early-stage breast cancer. Breast cancer recurrence following conservative therapy may occur during the first 5 years after treatment, with a peak incidence after 2 years. Therefore, during the follow-up period, patients undergo a series of ultrasound (US) and mammographic examinations. However, after surgery and radiation therapy, several modifications occur in the treated breast, causing difficulties in image interpretation, especially when local recurrence is suspected. Although not included in routine follow-up, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often used in clinical practice, being considered more sensitive than the conventional imaging examinations in discriminating between postsurgical tissue modifications and tumor recurrence. In this review article, we analyze expected and pathologic breast MRI findings after conservative oncoplastic surgery compared to US and mammographic findings in order to distinguish local recurrence and avoid potential pitfalls in image interpretation.
systematic-review	BRC485023	"Axillary Web Syndrome in Breast Cancer: A Prevalent But Under-Recognized Postoperative Complication Axillary Web Syndrome in Breast Cancer: A Prevalent But Under-Recognized Postoperative Complication The purpose of this review is to define axillary web syndrome (AWS) and describe its diagnosis and management. The following databases were searched through July 2017: PubMed, EMBASE (OvidSP), Cumulative Index for Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Physiotherapy Evidence Database, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Search terms included ‘axillary web syndrome', ‘axillary cording', and ‘lymphatic cording'. 49 articles were identified; 8 did not relate to breast cancer, and 3 were not in English. Of the remaining articles, the majority were case reports, case series, or descriptive reviews. 2 systematic reviews were located as well as 1 randomized trial, 6 prospective cohort studies, and 2 retrospective cohort studies. Although a common sequela after axillary surgery for breast cancer staging, AWS has been poorly described in the medical literature as to the underlying pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management. Interventions range from patient education and simple reassurance that the syndrome will resolve spontaneously to active physical or manual therapies to maintain upper extremity range-of-motion, especially adequate motion for undergoing radiation therapy. Oncologists, breast surgeons, family physicians, and oncology nurse practitioners that work with patients with breast cancer should educate them about this prevalent complication and inform them preoperatively about what to anticipate."
meta-analysis	BRC487073	"Effects of Music Intervention on the Physical and Mental Status of Patients with Breast Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effects of Music Intervention on the Physical and Mental Status of Patients with Breast Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The aim of this review was to evaluate the effects of music intervention on the physical and mental status of patients with breast cancer. Methods: 9 databases were searched; 30 randomized controlled trials that compared the effects of music plus standard care and standard care alone in patients with breast cancer were included. Methodological quality was assessed using the Jadad scale. Results: The results of the meta-analysis suggested that music intervention was significantly effective in lowering systolic blood pressure (standardized mean difference (SMD) -0.63, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.85 to -0.42; p &lt; 0.00001), diastolic blood pressure (SMD -0.64, 95% CI -1.06 to -0.22; p = 0.003), and heart rate (SMD -0.45, 95% CI -0.66 to -0.24; p &lt; 0.0001), and in relieving anxiety (Hamilton Scale: mean difference (MD) -7.04, 95% CI -9.31 to -4.78; p &lt; 0.00001; Self-Rating Anxiety Scale: MD -7.40, 95% CI -10.28 to -4.52; p &lt; 0.00001; State Anxiety Inventory: MD -12.40, 95% CI -21.86 to -2.94; p = 0.01), and depression (MD -7.39, 95% CI -8.35 to -6.43; p &lt; 0.00001). Conclusion: This review provides clues that music intervention might partially improve the physiological and psychological health of patients with breast cancer."
systematic-review	BRC487428	"Does Exercise Have a Preventive Effect on Secondary Lymphedema in Breast Cancer Patients Following Local Treatment - A Systematic Review Does Exercise Have a Preventive Effect on Secondary Lymphedema in Breast Cancer Patients Following Local Treatment - A Systematic Review Background: Secondary lymphedema (SL) is a possible side effect of breast cancer treatment. Current data describe a positive influence of exercise on upper lymphedema. This systematic review evaluates studies examining a potential preventive effect of exercise on SL incidence. Methods: A systematic literature search of PubMed, LIVIVO, and the Cochrane Library was performed. Results: 8 randomized controlled trials were included in the review. 3 studies investigated the effect of strength training, and 5 the effect of combined exercise therapy. 5 studies included participants without lymphedema at study entry, and 3 studies included both patients with and without lymphedema. The partly significant results showed that progressive strength training as well as combined dynamic exercise therapies consisting of physiotherapy, physical therapy, and/or kinesiotherapy are safe and can prevent SL. Onset as well as diagnosis of lymphedema were significantly decreased in 5 studies in the exercise group. Conclusion: All 8 studies included indicate a potential preventive effect of exercise on SL; however, further research is needed."
systematic-review	BRC488718	Can Nutrition Lower the Risk of Recurrence in Breast Cancer Can Nutrition Lower the Risk of Recurrence in Breast Cancer Background: The impact of diet on breast cancer prognosis is poorly understood. Therefore, we conducted a literature search summarizing the current evidence on the effect of diet on breast cancer recurrence and mortality. Methods: The PubMed database was searched for original studies, reviews, and meta-analyses published between 2010 and 2017. Studies related to diet, dietary patterns, special diets or specific dietary factors, and breast cancer recurrence or mortality were included. Results: Adherence to high diet quality indices (relative risk (RR) 0.74, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.60-0.90) and a prudent/healthy dietary pattern (RR 0.76, 95% CI 0.60-0.95) may have a beneficial effect on breast cancer prognosis, whereas a Western/unhealthy diet is associated with poorer overall mortality (RR 1.44, 95% CI 1.17-1.77). For low-fat diets, the findings are inconsistent. A positive effect of the Mediterranean Diet was found for all-cause mortality, but no beneficial effect from other diets such as low-carbohydrate, ketogenic or vegetarian/vegan diets was observed. Alcohol consumption was associated with an increased risk for breast cancer recurrence. No general recommendation for soy exists, but occasional intake seems to be acceptable, whereas the use of other supplements is not justified. Conclusion: Adherence to high-quality diets and a prudent/healthy dietary pattern seem to be beneficial for breast cancer prognosis. No clear evidence for a benefit from special diets, soy products, or other supplements was found.
research-article	BRC489565	Validation of a Nomogram Predicting Non-Sentinel Lymph Node Metastases among Patients with Breast Cancer after Primary Systemic Therapy - a transSENTINA Substudy Validation of a Nomogram Predicting Non-Sentinel Lymph Node Metastases among Patients with Breast Cancer after Primary Systemic Therapy - a transSENTINA Substudy Background: Prediction of non-sentinel lymph node (SLN) status after primary systemic therapy (PST) may allow tailored axillary staging. The aim of this analysis was to compare established nomograms from i) the primary operative (n = 6) and ii) the neoadjuvant (n = 1) setting with an optimized nomogram to predict non-SLN status in patients after PST. Methods: 181 patients converting from cN1 prior to PST to ycN0 but found to have a histologically positive SLN in the SENTINA trial were analyzed. Established models were applied. An optimized model was compiled using univariate and subsequent multivariable logistic regression (backward selection, likelihood ratio test). Results: Area-under-the-curve (AUC) values from the primary operative models showed sufficient performance (0.82-0.71). For the neoadjuvant model, the AUC was found to be inferior to prior analyses (0.66) but within published confidence intervals. The SENTINA nomogram comprised the diameter of the largest lymph node (p = 0.006, odds ratio (OR) = 1.19), tumor size prior to PST (p = 0.085, OR = 1.31), and number of all positive SLN (p = 0.083, OR = 2.04). This model was validated using a separate cohort of arm C (n = 168, AUC 0.79, 95% confidence interval 0.74-0.85). Conclusion: We validated 7 models of prediction of non-SLN among patients showing axillary conversion through PST. Our own ‘SENTINA nomogram' yielded AUC values comparable to previous nomograms.
research-article	BRC490040	Autologous Lipotransfer - Daily Therapeutic Practice in Breast Cancer: An Intergroup Analysis Encompassing NOGGO, WSG, GBG, AWO Gyn and DGPRÄC Autologous Lipotransfer - Daily Therapeutic Practice in Breast Cancer: An Intergroup Analysis Encompassing NOGGO, WSG, GBG, AWO Gyn and DGPRÄC Background: Autologous fat transfer in breast reconstruction has become increasingly important in breast reconstructive surgery. Although the indication to obtain fat, the various operative procedures, and the risks for the patient have been addressed in a large number of studies, detailed information on the everyday use of autologous lipotransfer in breast units in Germany is still lacking. Methods: The objective of the study was to obtain primary data on the use of autologous lipotransfer to treat breast cancer patients in Germany and to determine measures for quality assurance in the daily practice. An online questionnaire concerning breast cancer and lipofilling was sent to specialists in gynecology and plastic surgery. Results: Two-thirds of the specialists who responded to the questionnaire use autologous lipotransfer for breast reconstruction and did not report an increase of local recurrence following lipotransfer. There were only small differences between gynecologists and plastic surgeons regarding the procedure and indication for lipotransfer. The method is highly accepted by patients and physicians, and both gynecologists and plastic surgeons rated the improvement achieved through lipofilling as ‘high'. Conclusions: The lack of randomized controlled data, especially in high-risk patients, demonstrates the necessity for a registry study on this topic. Our survey describes, in detail, the indications for lipofilling as well as its appropriate application in breast cancer patients in Germany and may thereby reduce the present therapeutic uncertainties.
research-article	BRC491427	"Relationship between Ribosomal Protein S6-pS240 Expression and other Prognostic Factors in Non-Special Type Invasive Breast Cancer Relationship between Ribosomal Protein S6-pS240 Expression and other Prognostic Factors in Non-Special Type Invasive Breast Cancer Background: The aim of this study was to investigate the immunohistochemical expression of ribosomal protein (RP) S6-pS240 in non-special type invasive breast cancer in relation to other prognostic markers and gain new insights to facilitate more individualized treatment. Methods: The following clinical and histopathological parameters of 120 patients were determined: S6-pS240 expression, age, menopausal status, tumor size and grade, TNM stage, Nottingham Prognostic Index (NPI), lymph node stage, estrogen and progesterone receptor (ER/PR) expression, HER2/neu amplification, lymphovascular invasion, and proliferative index as measured by Ki-67. Treatment protocol and disease-free survival were evaluated accordingly. Results: Significant positive correlations were seen between S6-pS240 expression and Ki-67 values (rho = 0.530, p &lt; 0.001), and NPI (rho = 0.370, p &lt; 0.001) and HER2/neu amplification (rho = 0.368, p &lt; 0.001). A negative correlation was found between S6-pS240 and ER/PR expression (rho = 0.362, p &lt; 0.001). Patients with negative RP S6-pS240 expression had significantly longer disease-free survival (log-rank test, p = 0.005). Conclusion: Immunohistochemical analysis of RP S6-pS240 is a valuable additional prognostic marker in patients with invasive breast cancer. Routine use of S6-pS240 immunohistochemistry is recommended."
review-article	BRC491703	"Is Axillary Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy Required in Patients Who Undergo Primary Breast Surgery Is Axillary Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy Required in Patients Who Undergo Primary Breast Surgery Local treatment of the axilla in clinically node-negative (cN0) early breast cancer patients with routine sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is debated for various reasons: i) pN staging information may not be necessary for the postoperative treatment decision regarding adjuvant systemic therapy in the great majority of patients; ii) the SLNB-positive rate is declining below 20% in specialized breast centers; iii) albeit being a minimally invasive procedure, SLNB causes a significant reduction in quality of life in 23% of patients; and iv) previous randomized trials from the pre-SLNB era did not show a disadvantage for patients without axillary surgery with regard to overall survival. These data support the hypothesis that avoiding axillary treatment in patients with clinically and sonographically unsuspicious lymph nodes seems to be a safe option, although omitting axillary surgery may increase the risk of locoregional recurrence. Currently, the information regarding node-positive status is essential to guide postoperative treatment such as systemic or radiation therapies in a non-negligible minority of patients. Three ongoing prospective European trials (SOUND, INSEMA, BOOG 2013-08) with axillary observation alone versus SLNB in cN0 patients and primary breast-conserving surgery have the objective to evaluate oncologic safety when omitting SLNB."
review-article	BRC491704	What Is the Best Management of cN0pN1(sn) Breast Cancer Patients What Is the Best Management of cN0pN1(sn) Breast Cancer Patients Although the majority of breast cancer patients are clinically node-negative (cN0) at diagnosis, 15-20% will have a metastatic sentinel lymph node (SLN, pN1(sn)). While a less radical approach regarding axillary surgery in cN0 patients with a positive SLN biopsy is advocated, the limitations of 5 published trials on axillary management in pN1(sn) are discussed intensely in the literature and support the performance of ongoing validation and extension trials, especially considering the lack of data in the setting of mastectomy. As locoregional radiotherapy has a significant effect on both recurrence and survival, a standardization of locoregional radiotherapy in the situation of SLN biopsy alone in pN1(sn) patients has to be defined in the future, and de-escalation trials should embrace a truly multidisciplinary approach. This is also of utmost importance considering the fact that high-volume nodal disease requires an intensified adjuvant chemotherapy strategy to which patients omitting axillary dissection cannot be stratified. Finally, there is mounting evidence that the therapeutic role of extensive axillary surgery in low-volume nodal disease is negligible, and multidisciplinary and translational efforts must be undertaken to individualize treatment in order to gain a reasonable balance between necessary staging information and unnecessary treatment-related morbidity.
review-article	BRC492435	Lymph Nodes in Breast Cancer - What Can We Learn from Translational Research Lymph Nodes in Breast Cancer - What Can We Learn from Translational Research Clinical observations about lack of survival benefit after extensive axillary surgery and biological discordance between primary breast tumors and axillary lymph nodes raise the question of the actual metastatic potential of axillary nodal disease. The exploration of intratumoral heterogeneity and detection of genomic differences between the primary and lymph nodes indicate some similarity between the number of mutations in synchronous axillary node metastases and those in the primary lesion, suggesting a favorable prognosis. The hematogenous route of metastasis needs to be considered in findings of different subclones between nodal and distant metastases. Modern tools such as whole-genome sequencing applied in multiple tumor areas may guide more precisely the extent of axillary surgery.
review-article	BRC492436	"New Technologies for Sentinel Lymph Node Detection New Technologies for Sentinel Lymph Node Detection The ‘standard of care' method for sentinel node mapping is the combination technique using radioisotope and blue dye although some centres use radioisotope or blue dye alone. Radioisotope usage requires licensing, has regulatory issues around handling and disposal of waste, and logistically may be unavailable or difficult to implement in some centres or less developed country. This has led to the development of alternative methods such as superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO), fluorescence techniques using indocyanine green (ICG) or fluorescein, computed tomography lymphography, and contrast-enhanced ultrasound scan (CEUS) using microbubbles. The newer techniques will potentially enable a more widespread adoption of this procedure; however, a common barrier for these techniques is the lack of standardisation and no randomised trials to evaluate their effectiveness against the current standard of care. Furthermore, many of these techniques are more costly and may become redundant in node-negative patients with small tumours if ongoing trials show that sentinel node biopsy offers no additional benefit to grey-scale axillary ultrasound. This review discusses the new techniques for sentinel node mapping that have emerged including their pros and cons."
review-article	BRC492437	Current Status and Future Perspectives of Axillary Management in the Neoadjuvant Setting Current Status and Future Perspectives of Axillary Management in the Neoadjuvant Setting Axillary surgery has undergone considerable changes in recent years, especially in relation to patients who undergo neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT). Due to constantly decreasing rates of recurrence and death from breast cancer, modern surgical strategies aim at de-escalating the extent of local treatment and avoiding unnecessary procedures. This relates especially to lymph node surgery which is associated with considerable morbidity. In patients who initially present with clinically node-negative disease, sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is increasingly performed after NACT. The determination of the post-NACT nodal status does not only spare patients from additional surgery but also allows the assessment of pathologic complete response which is increasingly becoming an important tool for treatment planning. Since more than 70% of these patients have a ypN0 status after NACT, future trials will aim to identify patients who might be spared any axillary surgery after NACT. In patients who initially present with positive lymph nodes, the success rates of SLNB in terms of detection and accuracy are less favorable compared to those in patients who undergo primary surgery. The clinical significance of this is unclear. To reduce unnecessary axillary dissection in patients with cN1ycN0 status, prospective outcome data after SLNB without further lymph node removal are urgently needed. Improvements in surgical technique by localizing positive nodes at the time of diagnosis and removing them in a targeted surgical procedure (targeted axillary dissection) are under evaluation. Risk assessment and patient selection (including gene expression profiles) might be other ways of safely omitting axillary dissection.
case-report	BRC492580	"Mismatch Repair Deficiency Drives Durable Complete Remission by Targeting Programmed Death Receptor 1 in a Metastatic Luminal Breast Cancer Patient Mismatch Repair Deficiency Drives Durable Complete Remission by Targeting Programmed Death Receptor 1 in a Metastatic Luminal Breast Cancer Patient Background: In the field of breast cancer tumor biology, triple-negative breast cancer patients are the main focus of current clinical trials exploring the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors due to higher frequencies of somatic mutations, neoantigens, and resulting tumor-specific T-cell reactivity. Case Report: Here, we present the case of a 66-year-old woman with metastatic luminal breast cancer that rapidly responded to monotherapy with pembrolizumab, a monoclonal anti-PD-1 antibody. This patient obtained a partial clinical response within the first cycle of treatment and an ongoing durable complete remission after 12 weeks. Except for a transient immune-related thyreoiditis, there were no side effects observed offering remarkable quality of life to the patient. To evaluate the underlying mechanisms, we performed immunohistochemistry, explored the mutational landscape by whole-exome sequencing, and identified potential T-cell epitopes by prediction of neoantigens with high affinity binding to one of the patient's HLA. Briefly, we found a strong infiltration of CD8+ T cells without staining for PD-L1 in the tumor stroma. Exome sequencing revealed an enormous frequency of somatic and tumor-specific alterations, mainly C&gt;T/G&gt;A transitions. The mutational pattern was further linked to genome instability and deficient mismatch repair supported by the loss of MSH6 protein expression and therefore leading to susceptibility to immune checkpoint blockade. Conclusion: Within the overall goal to establish operating procedures for breast cancer immunotherapy, we propose to re-evaluate testing for deficient mismatch repair and to further intensify the search for biomarkers predictive for the success of immune checkpoint modulation including all tumor biologic subtypes of breast cancer."
case-report	BRC492601	"Application of a Three-Dimensional Reconstruction System in Breast Cancer with Ipsilateral Supraclavicular Lymph Node Metastasis: A Case Series Application of a Three-Dimensional Reconstruction System in Breast Cancer with Ipsilateral Supraclavicular Lymph Node Metastasis: A Case Series Background: The role of supraclavicular lymph node dissection (SCLND) in breast cancer patients with ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node metastasis (ISLM) remains controversial. So far, there have been no effective imaging methods to precisely judge the feasibility of SCLND and the modes of ISLM. Case Report: We innovatively applied a three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction system to assess the feasibility of SCLND preoperatively for 13 breast cancer patients with ISLM. Based on the 3D reconstruction system and intraoperative findings, we performed lymph node dissection of their lesion areas. Compared to computed tomography or ultrasonography, the 3D reconstruction system found more lymph nodes not only in the ipsilateral supraclavicular area but also in other areas in which metastasis may occur (p &lt; 0.05), and provided visual images pertaining to the relationship between the lymph nodes and major blood vessels, nerves, and muscles. Conclusion: The 3D reconstruction system could significantly benefit the precise assessment of the lesion area and facilitate subsequent relevant surgery."
research-article	BRC493017	"Re-Excision Rates in Breast-Conserving Surgery for Invasive Breast Cancer after Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy with and without the Use of a Radiopaque Tissue Transfer and X-ray System Re-Excision Rates in Breast-Conserving Surgery for Invasive Breast Cancer after Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy with and without the Use of a Radiopaque Tissue Transfer and X-ray System Background: Significant re-excision rates in breast-conserving surgery (BCS) after neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy may result from difficulties in defining the surgical target particularly in cases with excellent treatment response. Devices allowing an exact topographic localisation of the lesion in the resected tissue could reduce re-excision rates by optimising the intraoperative detection of involved margins. Methods: 80 patients with invasive breast cancer receiving BCS after neoadjuvant chemotherapy were included in this non-randomized case-control study. 40 patients with specimen radiography performed in a standard approach (control group) were compared to 40 patients with use of a radiopaque tissue transfer system (study group). Results: 19/80 (23.75%) patients required re-excision because of involved margins; among those, 14/40 (35%) were in the control group and 5/40 (12.5%) in the study group. The association between the use of the radiopaque tissue transfer system and the lower re-excision rate was statistically significant (p = 0.023). Conclusion: Our analysis provides a rationale for the routine use of a radiopaque tissue transfer system for specimen radiography in BCS after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for invasive breast cancer in order to reduce re-excision rates."
case-report	BRC493370	Efficacy of a CDK4/6 Inhibitor in a Patient with Breast Cancer and Liposarcoma: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Efficacy of a CDK4/6 Inhibitor in a Patient with Breast Cancer and Liposarcoma: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Background: The cyclin D/cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)4/6 inhibitor of the CDK4 (INK4)/retinoblastoma (Rb) pathway plays a crucial role in cell cycle progression. Selective CDK4/6 inhibitors specifically target a variety of tumors, with the main focus on hormone receptor(HR)-positive and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(HER2)-negative breast cancer (BC). Case Report: We report on the efficacy of neoadjuvant palbociclib and letrozole application in a patient suffering from invasive estrogen receptor (ER)+/HER2- BC and concurrent well-differentiated and dedifferentiated liposarcoma (WD-DDLPS) of the thigh. Clinical and histological workup upon surgery revealed significant regressive changes in both the liposarcoma and the BC. The 24-month follow-up shows no signs of disease. Conclusion: CDK4/6 inhibitors exhibit a high therapeutic potential, although reliable prognostic markers need to be identified.
research-article	BRC493985	"Effect of LigaSure™, Monopolar Cautery, and Bipolar Cautery on Surgical Margins in Breast-Conserving Surgery Effect of LigaSure™, Monopolar Cautery, and Bipolar Cautery on Surgical Margins in Breast-Conserving Surgery Background: We compared the differences in thermal damage at the surgical margin between monopolar cautery, bipolar cautery, and LigaSure™ in breast cancer lumpectomy specimens and assessed the effect of these techniques on the evaluation of the surgical margins. Methods: 30 patients scheduled for breast-conserving surgery for breast cancer were included in this study. During lumpectomy, each of the superior, inferior, lateral, and medial borders of the tumour was excised using one of the following: a scalpel, monopolar cautery, bipolar cautery, and LigaSure technology. The surgical margins of frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue sections of the lumpectomy specimen were evaluated. Thermal damage was defined as the maximum depth of thermal damage (in mm) from the surgical margin, and the level was categorized as none, low (≤1 mm), or high (&gt;1 mm). Results: There was no statistically significant difference between monopolar cautery, bipolar cautery, and LigaSure in terms of thermal damage. There was no thermal damage at the surgical margin in tissues dissected by scalpel. Conclusion: Thermal damage due to the excision method may cause false-negative and false-positive results in the surgical margin evaluation of lumpectomy specimens. More research is needed on the effects of different energy modalities on surgical margin evaluation in breast-conserving surgery."
review-article	BRC494276	Gynecomastia - Conservative and Surgical Management Gynecomastia - Conservative and Surgical Management Gynecomastia is defined as a unilateral or bilateral persistent benign mammary gland enlargement in men. Prevalence of asymptomatic gynecomastia is up to 65%. True gynecomastia must be distinguished from pseudogynecomastia. Typically, in true gynecomastia, a solid tissue mass is palpable below the nipple-areolar complex. Malignant changes such as male mammary carcinoma must always be ruled out. The causes of gynecomastia are diverse. An imbalance of female to male hormones triggers the onset of the disease. This imbalance can be caused by endogenous diseases like hyperthyroidism, chronic liver disease, primary or secondary gonadal failure, androgen resistance syndromes, medication, and drug abuse. A series of heart or hypertension medications can also trigger gynecomastia. A basic requirement of proper therapy planning is knowledge of the triggers and possible drug therapy options. Inquiring about the patient's lifestyle and medication history is essential. Drug therapy with tamoxifen may be considered at an early stage. For gynecomastia persisting over 12 months, surgical excision is the treatment of choice, and there are several surgical options available depending on the grade of the gynecomastia. A thoughtful approach to managing this condition can lead to high patient satisfaction.
systematic-review	BRC494691	Delayed Breast Cellulitis following Surgery for Breast Cancer: A Literature Review Delayed Breast Cellulitis following Surgery for Breast Cancer: A Literature Review Background: Delayed breast cellulitis (DBC) is a relatively rare complication following breast-conserving surgery. It is often challenging to distinguish DBC from other clinical conditions such as postoperative infection, inflammatory reaction following radiation, and recurrent inflammatory carcinoma. The definition of DBC, diagnostic approach, and treatment are not well established in the literature. Methods: We performed a literature search with the keywords ‘Delayed breast cellulitis' and ‘Breast conservation therapy cellulitis', without limitations to the dates or the article types, in the PubMed database. Information about the number of cases with DBC, the age of the patients, the interval between the onset of symptoms and the time of surgery or radiotherapy, and the type and outcome of DBC treatment were reviewed and tabulated. Results: We identified only 5 papers that were absolutely related to our subject, reflecting the fact that ‘delayed breast cellulitis' is a fairly unknown term and the condition is rather underreported. Although most agree that DBC is primarily an aseptic inflammatory process, bacterial growth may contribute to its development or recurrence. Obesity, breast size, location of the breast tumor, removal of the axillary lymph nodes, and connective tissue disorders are considered as risk factors. There is no clear evidence on how DBC should be best managed. Antibiotic treatment is controversial, and many authors suggest anti-inflammatory agents or sole observation. Prevention of lymph stasis and its consequences with massage and skin care may be helpful. Despite the fact that malignancy is rare, in cases where the condition persists for more than 4 months, a core biopsy should be performed to rule out recurrent or second primary carcinoma. Conclusion: The correct diagnostic approach is essential as it provides patients with reassurance, minimizes anxiety, and prevents unnecessary medical investigations, treatments, and costs.
review-article	BRC495146	"Granulomatous Mastitis: A Therapeutic and Diagnostic Challenge Granulomatous Mastitis: A Therapeutic and Diagnostic Challenge Granulomatous mastitis (GM) is a rare benign inflammatory breast disease that affects mostly women of childbearing age with a history of breastfeeding. The etiopathogenesis is still unknown; however, inflammation as the result of a reaction to trauma, metabolic or hormonal processes, autoimmunity, and an infection with Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii have all been implicated. Clinical findings are pain, mass, hyperemia, and inflammation. Because the clinical presentation can mimic infectious mastitis or inflammatory carcinoma, the disease course is often protracted. The diagnosis is made by histopathology. Biopsies show a granulomatous formation in combination with a localized infiltration of multi-nucleated giant cells, epithelioid histiocytes, and plasma cells. Ultrasound, mammography, and magnetic resonance imaging are not specific; however, ultrasound and mammography should be done to exclude other pathologies. Due to the lack of data including randomized controlled studies, the management of GM is controversial. In Western industrialized countries, most authors use a therapy regimen starting with antibiotics and corticosteroids, followed by continuous steroid therapy and surgery in patients with persisting symptoms. More data are needed to define the best therapy. The role of immunotherapy has not yet been ascertained. The implementation of a registry to collect more information on this rare disease is highly recommended."
case-report	BRC495919	Benign Breast Tumours - Diagnosis and Management Benign Breast Tumours - Diagnosis and Management With improvements in breast imaging, mammography, ultrasound and minimally invasive interventions, the detection of early breast cancer, non-invasive cancers, lesions of uncertain malignant potential, and benign lesions has increased. However, with the improved diagnostic capabilities comes a substantial risk of false-positive benign lesions and vice versa false-negative malignant lesions. A statement is provided on the manifestation, imaging, and diagnostic verification of isolated benign breast tumours that have a frequent manifestation, in addition to general therapy management recommendations. Histological evaluation of benign breast tumours is the most reliable diagnostic method. According to the S3 guideline and information gained from analysis of the literature, preference is to be given to core biopsy for each type of tumour as the preferred diagnostic method. An indication for open biopsy is also to be established should the tumour increase in size in the follow-up interval, after recurring discrepancies in the vacuum biopsy results, or at the request of the patient. As an alternative, minimally invasive procedures such as therapeutic vacuum biopsy, cryoablation or high-intensity focused ultrasound are also becoming possible alternatives in definitive surgical management. The newer minimally invasive methods show an adequate degree of accuracy and hardly any restrictions in terms of post-interventional cosmetics so that current requirements of extensive breast imaging can be thoroughly met.
case-report	CDE323182	A Long-Term Follow-Up of Angiolymphoid Hyperplasia with Eosinophilia Treated by Corticosteroids: When a Traditional Therapy is Still Up-to-Date A Long-Term Follow-Up of Angiolymphoid Hyperplasia with Eosinophilia Treated by Corticosteroids: When a Traditional Therapy is Still Up-to-Date Angiolymphoid hyperplasia with eosinophilia (ALHE) is a rare and idiopathic vascular disorder. It is characterized by red to brown papules or nodules dislocated in the dermis or subcutaneous tissue. These lesions are typically localized on the head and neck, particularly around the ear as singular or multiple nodules. Although ALHE is a benign disease, lesions are often persistent and difficult to eradicate. ALHE can occur in all races, but it is reported more frequently in Asians. Young to middle-aged women are more commonly affected. The histological examination corresponds to a florid vascular proliferation with atypical endothelial cells surrounded by a lymphocytic and eosinophilic infiltrate. We describe the case of a 67-year-old Caucasian man with a nodular lesion in the right postauricular region for 3 years. The histological examination was consistent with ALHE. Monthly intralesional corticosteroid injections were performed for 6 months, and complete remission was achieved. After 10 years of follow-up, the patient is free of recurrence.
case-report	CDE324344	Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor-α Therapy in the Management of Psoriasis and B-Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor-α Therapy in the Management of Psoriasis and B-Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Psoriasis is a chronic immunologically-based inflammatory skin disease. B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a form of leukemia characterized by the slow and progressive accumulation of monoclonal CD5+ B lymphocytes in peripheral blood, bone marrow, lymph nodes and other organs. A T-helper 1 cytokine-mediated pathway is involved in these disorders in which tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) plays a central role. TNF-α is involved in physiological phenomena, such as host defense, inflammation and cell differentiation, and in many pathological conditions, such as fever and some malignant neoplasms. TNF-α involvement in psoriasis has been well validated by the clinical success of anti-TNF-α therapy. TNF-α has been well studied in the pathogenesis of B-CLL, suggesting it as a target in B-CLL therapy. We present the case of a patient suffering from plaque psoriasis and B-CLL. Since TNF-α is reported as a common link between psoriasis and B-CLL, the patient was treated with etanercept followed by infliximab, two anti-TNF-α drugs. During 3 years of therapy, the patient did not show significant modifications of lymphocyte levels, indicating no progression of B-CLL. We report this case to highlight the possibility to administer anti-TNF-α treatment in psoriatic patients affected by concomitant B-CLL.
case-report	CDE325068	Chronic Actinic Dermatitis with Leonine Facies and Iatrogenic Adrenal Insufficiency Successfully Treated with Topical Tacrolimus Chronic Actinic Dermatitis with Leonine Facies and Iatrogenic Adrenal Insufficiency Successfully Treated with Topical Tacrolimus Chronic actinic dermatitis is a chronic photosensitivity disorder characterized by severe eczematous lesions on sun-exposed skin areas. We report a case of chronic actinic dermatitis presenting with leonine facies and secondary adrenal insufficiency, which was successfully treated with topical tacrolimus. The facial lesions dramatically improved after sun avoidance and topical tacrolimus application. After almost 20 years of oral corticosteroid therapy complicated with secondary adrenal insufficiency, we were able to switch treatment from systemic corticosteroids to topical tacrolimus to control the patient’s symptoms.
case-report	CDE325069	Transient Effectiveness of an Oral 5-Fluorouracil Derivative, S-1, for Epirubicin, Cyclophosphamide and Paclitaxel Refractory Skin Metastases from Possible Occult Breast Cancer in a Male Transient Effectiveness of an Oral 5-Fluorouracil Derivative, S-1, for Epirubicin, Cyclophosphamide and Paclitaxel Refractory Skin Metastases from Possible Occult Breast Cancer in a Male Recent chemotherapies for skin metastases from breast cancer have shown to be effective for regression, disappearance, and favorable quality of life. We describe the case of a 76-year-old male showing transient effectiveness with an oral 5-fluorouracil derivative, S-1 (tegafur, 5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine and potassium oxonate), for epirubicin, cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel refractory skin metastases from possible occult breast cancer. The male patient was initially diagnosed as having lymph node metastases in the left axilla as possible occult breast cancer. The skin metastases developed after chemotherapy with a combination of epirubicin and cyclophosphamide, subsequent chemotherapy with paclitaxel, and radiotherapy. Chemotherapy with paclitaxel was resumed for skin metastases, but it was not effective. Alternative chemotherapy with the oral agent S-1 was administered. The skin metastases completely disappeared after the second course, but recurred at the end of the third course. This case suggests that S-1 may be a candidate for chemotherapy for skin metastases from occult breast cancer in males.
case-report	CDE326055	Tinea incognito Caused by Microsporum gypseum in a Patient with Advanced HIV Infection: A Case Report Tinea incognito Caused by Microsporum gypseum in a Patient with Advanced HIV Infection: A Case Report The prevalence and the clinical relevance of dermatophytoses in HIV-infected patients are poorly documented, particularly for those caused by tinea incognito. Here, we report a case of widespread facialtinea incognito occurring in an Italian patient with advanced HIV infection, showing both skin and brain lesions. Second-line treatment with liposomal amphotericin B and cotrimoxazole, administered after a microbiological characterization of the skin scrapings, led to complete clearance of all lesions.
case-report	CDE441711	An Unusual Case of Multiple Tendinous Xanthomas Involving the Extremities and the Ears An Unusual Case of Multiple Tendinous Xanthomas Involving the Extremities and the Ears Tendinous and subcutaneous xanthomas are nodular deposits of lipid-filled macrophages, which commonly form on the Achilles tendon, hands, feet, elbows, and knees. These nodules are frequently associated with familial hyperlipidemia, a group of diseases involving impaired cholesterol metabolism, and the accelerated development of atherosclerotic plaques. Since xanthomas may precede the diagnosis of hyperlipidemia, early identification can lead to preventative treatment that reduces the risk and morbidity of cardiovascular disease, including myocardial infarction. This case report presents a 43-year-old African-American male with multiple xanthomas involving the Achilles tendon, soles, hands, knees, elbows, and is associated with the unusual involvement of the ear.
case-report	CDE442343	Erythromelanosis Follicularis Faciei: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Erythromelanosis Follicularis Faciei: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Erythromelanosis follicularis faciei is a rare sporadic condition of unknown etiology characterized by reddish-brownish patches and follicular papules that appear commonly on the face and rarely on the neck. Herein, we report a 16-year-old male who had asymptomatic facial skin lesions since early childhood. His family history revealed a similar case in his younger brother. His parents are not consanguineous. Skin examination revealed diffuse nonscaly brownish patches with erythematous background and multiple skin-colored, hypopigmented follicular papules on both cheeks. A summary of previous reports of erythromelanosis follicularis faciei in the literature is presented in this report.
case-report	CDE442380	A Case of Acute Generalized Pustular Psoriasis of von Zumbusch Triggered by Hypocalcemia A Case of Acute Generalized Pustular Psoriasis of von Zumbusch Triggered by Hypocalcemia Psoriasis is an autoimmune disease triggered by different conditions in genetically susceptible people. It is characterized by variable cutaneous manifestations including localized or disseminated pustules. Generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP) has two main clinical forms: von Zumbusch psoriasis, characterized by severe erythrodermia and scaling skin after the resolution of pustules, and the annular form. GPP may also present severe extracutaneous manifestations including pneumonitis, heart failure and hepatitis. Old reports showed a relationship between hypoparathyroidism and hypocalcemia as triggers for GPP highlighting the importance of adequate workup of the patient and possible therapeutic changes in acute situations. Here, we present a case of severe von Zumbusch psoriasis with life-threatening complications triggered by severe hypocalcemia secondary to hypoparathyroidism successfully treated with aggressive calcium reposition.
case-report	CDE442704	A Case of Basal Cell Carcinoma with Outer Hair Follicle Sheath Differentiation A Case of Basal Cell Carcinoma with Outer Hair Follicle Sheath Differentiation A 70-year-old Japanese man presented at our hospital with an asymptomatic, blackish, irregularly shaped plaque with a gray nodule in the periphery on his left lower leg. The lesion had been present for 10 years and had recently enlarged, associated with bleeding. Histopathologically, the tumor consisted of three distinct parts: The first part showed massive aggregation of basophilic basaloid cells with peripheral palisading and abundant melanin granules, and was diagnosed as solid-type basal cell carcinoma. The second part showed aggregation of clear cells with squamous eddies, and was diagnosed as proliferating trichilemmal tumor. The third part showed reticular aggregation of basaloid cells with infundibular cysts in the papillary dermis, and was diagnosed as infundibulocystic basal cell carcinoma. We diagnosed this tumor as basal cell carcinoma with various forms of hair follicle differentiation, including differentiation into the outer root sheath.
case-report	CDE446837	Malignant Melanoma on a Thermal Burn Scar with an Interval of More Than 70 Years Malignant Melanoma on a Thermal Burn Scar with an Interval of More Than 70 Years Cases of malignant melanoma on thermal burn scars have occasionally been reported. We report a 78-year-old Japanese female with malignant melanoma on a thermal burn scar with an interval of more than 70 years. Our case reemphasizes the importance of regular examinations in persons with thermal burn scars.
case-report	CDE447051	"Apremilast Is Effective in Lichen Planus Mucosae-Associated Stenotic Esophagitis Apremilast Is Effective in Lichen Planus Mucosae-Associated Stenotic Esophagitis A 74-year-old woman with extensive lichen planus mucosae (LPM) developed stenotic esophagitis that was refractory to intravenous glucocorticosteroids. Esophageal dilatations to 14 mm width were repeatedly performed without any lasting effect. After introducing oral apremilast, she experienced complete clinical remission within the first 4 weeks of treatment. Control esophagoscopy confirmed a marked recovery of the esophageal mucosa with no recurrence of the former stenosis. Our observation is in line with the case series of Paul et al. [J Am Acad Dermatol 2013;68: 255–261] who first reported on the benefit of apremilast in patients with extensive LPM. Ideally, the effectiveness of apremilast in LPM should be studied in a randomized controlled trial."
case-report	CDE448275	Ulcerated Giant Dermatofibroma following Routine Childhood Vaccination in a Young Boy Ulcerated Giant Dermatofibroma following Routine Childhood Vaccination in a Young Boy Introduction: The development of cutaneous neoplasms at immunization sites following vaccination is uncommon, and only few have been reported in the literature worldwide. We report an unusual case of an ulcerated giant dermatofibroma that developed as a chronic nonhealing plaque in the immunization scar of a young boy after vaccination. Case Report: A 13-month-old Chinese boy presented with an unusual skin reaction on the vaccination site at the right anterolateral thigh following a routine intramuscular injection of ‘5-in-1’ (diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, polio and Haemophilus influenzae B) vaccine at 4 months of age. The immunization site developed a slightly raised papule with a central punctum that progressively grew in size, ulcerated and showed occasional bleeding over a span of 9 months. On follow-up, the lesion showed a chronic granulomatous reaction with surrounding induration and a central scarring. The right inguinal lymph node was palpable. Ultrasound of the lesion showed only nonspecific focal skin thickening. An incisional skin biopsy with careful histopathological evaluation revealed microscopic features consistent with an ulcerated giant dermatofibroma. Conclusion: Neoplastic development in immunization scars following vaccination is a rare occurrence and, hence, makes this case a diagnostic challenge. A high index of suspicion is crucial in atypical presentations of a common skin lesion, as typified by this case. Careful history taking and clinicopathological correlation of clinical findings with gross and microscopic findings along with targeted immunohistological staining is often essential to aid early diagnosis.
case-report	CDE475519	Itolizumab – A New Biologic for Management of Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis Itolizumab – A New Biologic for Management of Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis Psoriasis is a chronic, relapsing, inflammatory, immune-mediated systemic disease with mainly skin and joint manifestations. The available treatment options to cure psoriasis include topical therapy, phototherapy, and biological therapy. Biological therapy has become a promising option due to the rapid action and less adverse effects associated with its use. The newly developed biologic itolizumab is a humanized recombinant anti-CD6 monoclonal antibody of IgG1 isotype that binds to domain 1 of CD6, thereby immunomodulating human lymphocytes without interfering with the binding of CD6 to the activated leukocyte-cell adhesion molecule. In this case series, a total of 5 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis were treated with itolizumab. They exhibited a rapid PASI 75 response after 4 doses of itolizumab infusion. The patients were poor responders to methotrexate and/or cyclosporine therapy for a long time. All infusions were well tolerated by all patients with no adverse reactions or infections during the treatment period. Itolizumab can be a good option for management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
case-report	CDE477957	Certolizumab Pegol-Induced Folliculitis-Like Lichenoid Sarcoidosis in a Patient with Rheumatoid Arthritis Certolizumab Pegol-Induced Folliculitis-Like Lichenoid Sarcoidosis in a Patient with Rheumatoid Arthritis Anti-tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) biologic agents are used for treating refractory sarcoidosis. However, sarcoidosis-like epithelioid cell granulomas may develop during anti-TNF-α treatment. A 63-year-old man suffering from rheumatoid arthritis was treated with oral methotrexate and methylprednisolone for 4 years. He subsequently started biweekly subcutaneous injections of certolizumab pegol. Three months later, light red follicular papules developed on his chest and they spread over the trunk and bilateral upper arms. Histopathology of a lesion showed a sharply demarcated noncaseating epithelioid cell granuloma with multi-nucleated giant cells in the upper perifollicular area. The follicular papules subsided following discontinuation of certolizumab pegol. Folliculitis-like lichenoid sarcoidosis should be included among the adverse cutaneous reactions of anti-TNF-α treatment.
case-report	CDE479922	Successful Topical Treatment of Pigmented Purpuric Lichenoid Dermatitis of Gougerot-Blum in a Young Patient: A Case Report and Summary of the Most Common Pigmented Purpuric Dermatoses Successful Topical Treatment of Pigmented Purpuric Lichenoid Dermatitis of Gougerot-Blum in a Young Patient: A Case Report and Summary of the Most Common Pigmented Purpuric Dermatoses We report the case of a 12-year-old girl who presented a rash with reddish-brown patches on the trunk and extremities indicative of pigmented purpuric lichenoid dermatitis of Gougerot-Blum (PPLD). The histological findings were characteristic for PPLD, thus supporting the diagnosis. Topically administered corticosteroid led to a fast resolution of all symptoms. PPLD is not seen commonly in young patients and is most often described as responding poorly to treatment with topical corticosteroids. However, the case presented here shows both that PPLD can be seen in adolescence and that the condition may be treated successfully with an intense regime of topical corticosteroids. PPLD belongs to the group of pigmented purpuric dermatoses. The 5 most common pigmented purpuric dermatoses are summarized with respect to their clinical and paraclinical characteristics.
case-report	CDE479923	An Unusual Presentation of Pyoderma Gangrenosum Leading to Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome An Unusual Presentation of Pyoderma Gangrenosum Leading to Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome This is a report of an atypical presentation of pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) in a 26-year-old male who had a negative septic screen. The patient had a life-threatening presentation requiring an intensive care unit (ICU) admission for vasopressor support. It was thought that the likely cause of circulatory collapse was an overwhelming cytokine reaction or systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) secondary to extensive PG lesions rather than septic shock. The patient presented with multiple large ulcers, the largest being 4 cm in diameter on the central chest. He developed fevers and circulatory shock preceding his ICU admission. Microbiological specimens, including blood cultures and wound swabs, were negative for any growth (bacterial, fungal, and tuberculosis). No infective foci could be identified as a cause of hemodynamic instability. During admission, the patient’s condition was complicated by multi-organ dysfunction. Wound debridement extending to the deep fascia on the anterior chest, back, bilateral shoulders, and right upper thigh was deemed necessary and performed by the plastic surgery team. Histopathology showed abundant neutrophils but could not confirm an infective process. Overall, the patient made an impressive recovery with almost complete healing of all lesions following oral prednisolone alone. Based on the history and clinical and laboratory findings, a diagnosis of PG complicated by a SIRS was favored. Very few cases of neutrophilic dermatoses have been described in this way. A similar presentation has been described in a 76-year-old female with lower-leg ulcers who developed circulatory shock and required an amputation. Lesions continued to appear despite antibiotics and surgical treatment. Septic screen was negative. She was subsequently diagnosed with PG and recovered rapidly after steroid therapy.
case-report	CDE480068	Pachyderma in Primary Cutaneous NK and T-Cell Lymphoma and Leukemia Cutis Pachyderma in Primary Cutaneous NK and T-Cell Lymphoma and Leukemia Cutis Background: Pachyderma is defined as severely thickened skin with deep folds and is occasionally observed with primary cutaneous NK and T-cell lymphoma (pCNKTCL), primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma (pCBCL), and leukemia cutis (LC). Aim: To describe the clinical, histological, and therapeutic particularities of a series of pCNKTCL, pCBCL, and LC patients with pachyderma. Results: In a series of pCNKTCL (n = 70), pCBCL (n = 12), and LC (n = 2) patients followed up during 9 years, 6 cases of pachyderma were observed. Pachyderma occurred on the arms (n = 2), thighs (n = 1), forehead (n = 1), and face (n = 2). The mean age of the patients was 69 years (51–82). The stages were erythrodermic (T4) mycosis fungoides (MF) (n = 1), folliculotropic MF (FMF) (n = 2), classic (T2) MF (n = 2), and chronic myeloid leukemia (n = 1). The erythrodermic MF patient with acute pachyderma on the right arm responded rapidly to oral steroids. The other cases were indolent, appeared progressively, and were highly treatment resistant. Histology revealed dense dermal neoplastic infiltration. The immunohistological profile of the pachydermic lesions was similar to common MF and LC. Conclusion: Pachyderma is an atypical manifestation of MF and LC and may occur on the face (FMF) or the extremities (MF). The rapidly appearing pachyderma may be transitory and responds readily to oral steroids.
case-report	CDE480227	Looking Beyond the Cyclosporine “Swish and Spit” Technique in a Recalcitrant Case of Erosive Lichen Planus Involving the Tongue Looking Beyond the Cyclosporine “Swish and Spit” Technique in a Recalcitrant Case of Erosive Lichen Planus Involving the Tongue Oral lichen planus is a relatively common autoimmune disease affecting the middle-aged population. Although no treatment is necessary for a benign asymptomatic case, in case of erosive lichen planus, topical corticosteroids form the mainstay of treatment. In case of failure, apart from tacrolimus, cyclosporine, using the “swish and spit” technique, is a valid therapeutic intervention. In our case, though, this therapeutic option had to be replaced by the systemic use of cyclosporine with gratifying results.
case-report	CDE480398	Facial Edema in an Elderly Man: An Unusual Presentation of Nonepisodic Angioedema with Eosinophilia Facial Edema in an Elderly Man: An Unusual Presentation of Nonepisodic Angioedema with Eosinophilia Nonepisodic angioedema with eosinophilia (NEAE) is a rare allergic disease with a young Japanese and East Asian female predominance. NEAE features transient, nonrecurrent angioedema and peripheral blood eosinophilia without visceral organ involvement. Angioedema in NEAE occurs on the extremities, while the trunk and face are rarely involved. Here, we report a case of NEAE affecting only the face in an 80-year-old Japanese man. He was otherwise healthy and took no medication until the sudden development of angioedema on the face. The extremities and trunk were not involved. Skin biopsy examination revealed eosinophilic infiltration and degranulation between collagen bundles through the entire dermis, and perivascular and perifollicular infiltration of eosinophils and lymphocytes, but no evidence of vasculitis. Peripheral hypereosinophilia and high serum thymus- and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) level were noted. Visceral organ involvement, parasite infection, and an allergic response were not detected in the patient. Administration of oral corticosteroid improved his symptoms rapidly and dramatically with improvements in the blood eosinophil count and serum TARC level. After the corticosteroid was discontinued, no recurrence was observed for 3 years. Thus, he was diagnosed as having NEAE. It should be noted that angioedema with eosinophilia might occur with an unusual presentation and might develop in elderly patients.
case-report	CDE480722	Nevus Comedonicus: Case Report Nevus Comedonicus: Case Report Nevus comedonicus is a rare cutaneous anomaly, characterized by the clustering of papules with firm, blackened horny buffers. It in general has a zosteriform pattern and affects both genders equally. In some patients, there is formation of cysts, abscesses, and fistulas, aggravating its psychosocial impact. The association with extracutaneous lesions characterizes the nevus comedonicus syndrome. Despite several therapeutic options, the result is unsatisfactory in most cases. We report the case of a man with an exuberant congenital lesion, affecting the left suprascapular region, arm, and forearm.
case-report	CDE481193	Plaque-Type Syringoma: A Case Report Plaque-Type Syringoma: A Case Report Syringomas are benign appendageal tumors originated from eccrine ducts. The lesions usually present as multiple small, firm papules at lower eyelids and cheeks of women. Plaque-type syringoma is an infrequent form of syringoma and to date, 12 cases have been reported. Pathology demonstrated benign proliferation of eccrine ductal structures in the dermis with surrounding fibrotic stroma. We report the case of a 40-year-old Thai male with plaque-type syringomas at infraorbital areas.
case-report	CDE495000	Delayed Diagnosis of Vulvar Crohn’s Disease in a Patient with No Gastrointestinal Symptoms Delayed Diagnosis of Vulvar Crohn’s Disease in a Patient with No Gastrointestinal Symptoms Though Crohn’s disease primarily affects the gastrointestinal tract, cutaneous Crohn’s disease of the vulva can occur in the absence of gastrointestinal symptoms, complicating the diagnosis. Once clinicians suspect cutaneous Crohn’s disease, antibiotics and traditional immunosuppressants comprise initial treatment. Unfortunately, sometimes these therapies are not effective, or they provide only short-lived symptomatic improvement. A few case reports have found tumor necrosis factor-α inhibitors to be helpful in such refractory cases. We describe a patient with long-standing, painful vulvar Crohn’s lesions with no gastrointestinal manifestations of the disease. Her diagnosis was delayed for years, and initial therapy with antibiotics and steroids was unsuccessful. Finally, the patient experienced effective and long-lasting symptom improvement with infliximab (RemicadeTM).
systematic-review	CED323258	"Stroke and Myocardial Infarction: A Comparative Systematic Evaluation of Gender-Specific Analysis, Funding and Authorship Patterns in Cardiovascular Research Stroke and Myocardial Infarction: A Comparative Systematic Evaluation of Gender-Specific Analysis, Funding and Authorship Patterns in Cardiovascular Research Background: Major gender differences exist in cardiovascular diseases and lead to different outcomes in women and men. However, attention and incorporation of sex-/gender-specific research might vary among disciplines. We therefore conducted a systematic review comparing publication characteristics and trends between stroke and myocardial infarction (MI) with respect to sex- and gender-related aspects. Methods: A systematic literature search was performed in PubMed to identify gender-/sex-related articles published for stroke and MI between 1977 and 2008. A specifically designed text mining program was used, and all literature was rated by two independent investigators. Publications were classified according to type of research performed, publication year, funding, geographical location, and gender of first and last authors. Results: 962 articles were retrieved and limited to 405 (42%) gender-relevant publications; 131 on stroke and 274 on MI. Type of performed research differed, especially in disease management, which received little attention (17%) in stroke, while representing the major focus in MI (40%). In both areas, clinical presentation received little attention (3 and 5%). Although publications progressively increased in both fields, an 8- to 10-year time gap emerged for stroke compared to MI. Last authors in both areas were predominantly men, but female last authorship is increasing more significantly over time in the field of stroke. Research on sex and gender differences in MI and stroke is largely underfunded, particularly by the EU. Conclusions: The data demonstrate how sex-/gender-specific research differs between specialties, most likely due to the diverse interest, funding opportunities and authorship distributions identified."
systematic-review	CED326068	"The Authors Say: ‘The Data Are Not So Robust because of Heterogeneity’ – So, How Should I Deal with This Systematic Review? The Authors Say: ‘The Data Are Not So Robust because of Heterogeneity’ – So, How Should I Deal with This Systematic Review? Systematic reviews can, if done well, provide a convenient and unbiased summary of the evidence on a particular topic. The presence of substantial heterogeneity in a meta-analysis is always of interest. On the one hand, it may indicate that there is excessive clinical diversity in the studies included, and that it is inappropriate to derive an estimate of overall effect from that particular set of studies. On the other hand, appropriate exploration of the source of heterogeneity may either identify poor design of the studies included or perhaps not even identify the cause; in either case, investigating the source of the heterogeneity may be identified as a topic for future research."
systematic-review	CED327032	Mania and Stroke: A Systematic Review Mania and Stroke: A Systematic Review Background: Mania is a rare consequence of stroke and according to the sparse published information it is difficult to describe its demographic, clinical and prognostic characteristics. Methods: We performed a systematic review of all cases of mania and stroke to describe those characteristics. Studies were identified from comprehensive searches of electronic databases, reference lists of the studies collected and handbooks. Two authors independently assessed abstracts, and collected and extracted data. Results: From 265 abstracts, 139 were potentially relevant. For the first analysis, which tries to answer the clinical question of the relationship between mania and stroke, 49 studies met the inclusion criteria and described 74 cases. For the second analysis, we looked for an explicit temporal and causal relationship between manic symptoms and stroke, and selected 32 studies describing 49 cases. In both analyses, the typical patient was male, without a personal or family history of psychiatric disorder, with at least one vascular risk factor, but without subcortical atrophy and had suffered a right cerebral infarct. The majority of patients (92%) presented elevated mood as the first symptom. The other frequent symptoms were an increased rate or amount of speech (71%), insomnia (69%) and agitation (63%). Conclusions: Post-stroke mania should be considered in any manic patient who presents concomitant neurological focal deficits and is older than expected for the onset of primary mania. The results of a systematic study of mania in acute stroke with subsequent follow-up and data from diffusion MR or perfusion CT in a multicenter study with a central database would be relevant.
systematic-review	CED331466	Cerebral Microbleeds: Histopathological Correlation of Neuroimaging Cerebral Microbleeds: Histopathological Correlation of Neuroimaging Background: In recent years, there has been a growing interest in cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) and their role in cerebrovascular disease. A few studies have investigated the histopathological correlation between CMBs and neuroimaging findings. We conducted a systematic review in an attempt to characterize the pathological and radiological correlation. Methods: A systematic literature search was conducted for studies in which CMBs were characterized histopathologically and correlated with MRI findings. Results: Five studies met the inclusion criteria, with a total of 18 patients. Hemosiderin deposition was reported in 42 CMBs (49%), while 16 CMBs (19%) were described as old hematomas which stained for iron, 13 (15%) had no associated specific pathology, 11 (13%) contained intact erythrocytes, 1 (1%) was due to vascular pseudocalcification, 1 (1%) was a microaneurysm and 1 (1%) was a distended dissected vessel. Lipofibrohyalinosis was the most prominent associated vascular finding. Amyloid angiopathy was present primarily in patients with dementia. Conclusions: Although histopathological associations have been observed using MRI in patients with CMBs, the findings have yet to be validated and further research is warranted.
systematic-review	CED332810	Correlation of Levels of Neuronal and Glial Markers with Radiological Measures of Infarct Volume in Ischaemic Stroke: A Systematic Review Correlation of Levels of Neuronal and Glial Markers with Radiological Measures of Infarct Volume in Ischaemic Stroke: A Systematic Review Background: A blood test that quantified the extent of brain damage following ischaemic stroke might be a useful surrogate outcome measure in trials of acute stroke treatments. Measures of neuronal and glial damage, such as neuron-specific enolase (NSE), glial fibrillary acidic protein, tau-protein, myelin-basic protein and S100-β are potential candidate biomarkers. Aim: We systematically reviewed the relevant literature to find studies that correlated blood levels of neuronal and glial damage markers with imaging measures of infarct volume. Methods: We identified studies with a comprehensive search of databases and the reference lists of relevant studies. We included studies that: (1) measured the highest level, or area under the curve (AUC) over time of markers of cerebral damage, (2) calculated infarct volume, and (3) correlated the two measures. Results: Seventeen studies met the criteria for the systematic review. There were sufficient data to provide summary estimates for S100-β and NSE. The peak level and AUC over time of both markers correlated with subacute infarct volume. Measurements of S100-β later than 24 h after stroke were better correlated with subacute infarct size than earlier measurements. However, scan times varied, and none was later than 8 days after stroke. Conclusion: Peak and AUC levels of NSE and S100-β levels correlated with subacute infarct volume. Correlations of S100-β with infarct volume were stronger when measured after 24 h than closer to admission. Exploratory studies within clinical trials are necessary before blood markers of cerebral tissue damage can be recommended as surrogate endpoints.
systematic-review	CED341858	"Brain Natriuretic Peptide Is Associated with Worsening and Mortality in Acute Stroke Patients but Adds No Prognostic Value to Clinical Predictors of Outcome Brain Natriuretic Peptide Is Associated with Worsening and Mortality in Acute Stroke Patients but Adds No Prognostic Value to Clinical Predictors of Outcome Background: At the present time, the determination of the outcome of stroke patients is based on the analysis of clinical and neuroimaging data. The use of prognostic blood biomarkers could aid in decision-making processes, e.g. admitting patients to specialized stroke units. Although the prognostic role of natriuretic peptides has been studied in heart failure and coronary diseases, the value of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is less known within the field of strokes. Objective: We aimed to study the relationship between plasma levels of BNP and acute neurological worsening or mortality after stroke in a large cohort of patients (investigating both ischemic and hemorrhagic disease). Methods: Consecutive stroke patients (ischemic and hemorrhagic) admitted to the Stroke Unit of our University Hospital within 24 h of the onset of symptoms were included. Stroke severity was assessed according to the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at admission and at discharge. Neurological worsening was defined as an increase of 4 or more points in the NIHSS score or death during the patient’s stay at the Stroke Unit. Blood samples were drawn upon admission to measure plasma levels of BNP (Biosite Inc., San Diego, Calif., USA). Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 15.0 and R software. Results: Altogether, 896 patients were included in the study. BNP plasma levels were higher among patients who deteriorated the most over time (n = 112; 90.5 vs. 61.2 ng/l; p = 0.006) or died (n = 83; 118.2 vs. 60.9 ng/l; p &lt; 0.001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis indicated that plasma BNP level was an independent predictor of neurological worsening [BNP &gt;56.7 ng/l; odds ratio (OR) = 1.64; p = 0.04] and death after stroke (BNP &gt;65.3 ng/l; OR = 1.97; p = 0.034). Adding BNP level to other well-known clinical predictors of bad outcome did not significantly increase the predictive value. Conclusions: Plasma levels of BNP measured during the acute phase of stroke are associated both with early neurological worsening and mortality. However, this biological information does not supply prognostic information which would add to clinical variables, which limits its use as a biomarker. Further investigation and systematic reviews are needed to clarify the role of natriuretic peptides in stroke outcome."
research-article	CED347069	Anterior Choroidal Artery Territory Infarction: Lesions Confined to versus beyond the Internal Capsule Anterior Choroidal Artery Territory Infarction: Lesions Confined to versus beyond the Internal Capsule Background: Studies investigating the clinical features and stroke mechanisms of anterior choroidal artery (AchA) infarction have reported inconsistent results. This may be partly due to different degrees of inclusion of patients with isolated posterior limb of the internal capsule (PLIC) lesions, which may be supplied by lenticulostriate arteries rather than AchA. The purpose of this study was to investigate clinical features and stroke mechanisms of AchA infarction, with particular attention to the above problem. Methods: We evaluated patients with AchA infarction assessed with diffusion-weighted imaging and magnetic resonance angiography, who were admitted to the Asan Medical Center from July 2001 to April 2011. Probable AchA (pAchA) infarction was diagnosed when the lesions were confined to the lower part of the PLIC, while definite AchA (dAchA) infarction was diagnosed when the lateral geniculate body, the uncus, or the cerebral peduncle were concomitantly involved. We assessed imaging findings, stroke mechanisms, and clinical features, and investigated the differences between patients with dAchA infarction and those with pAchA infarction. Results: We identified 127 patients with AchA infarction: 34 with dAchA infarctions, 90 with pAchA infarctions, and 3 without PLIC lesions. The most important stroke mechanism was small artery disease (SAD), followed by large artery disease (LAD). In patients with LAD, distal internal carotid artery (ICA) disease was a relatively important cause of stroke. The dAchA group, as compared with the pAchA group, was more frequently related to cardioembolism (12 vs. 2%, p = 0.03), distal ICA steno-occlusion (35 vs. 2%, p = 0.001), severe neurologic deficits (higher National Institute of Health Stroke Scale scores and more severe limb weakness), and less often associated with SAD (56 vs. 78%, p = 0.02). Conclusion: In general, SAD was the most important stroke mechanism for AchA infarction followed by LAD. However, dAchA infarction and pAchA infarction differ in that the former was more often associated with cardioembolism, distal ICA steno-occlusion, a worse clinical status and less often associated with SAD than the latter. The different proportion of patients with pure PLIC lesions included in previous studies may have led to inconsistent and confusing results, which should be considered to gain a proper understanding of AchA infarction.
research-article	CED347071	"Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Based versus Computed Tomography-Based Thrombolysis in Acute Ischemic Stroke: Comparison of Safety and Efficacy within a Cohort Study Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Based versus Computed Tomography-Based Thrombolysis in Acute Ischemic Stroke: Comparison of Safety and Efficacy within a Cohort Study Background: In acute ischemic stroke, brain imaging is mandatory in the decision whether to perform intravenous thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. The most widespread used imaging modality to exclude intracranial hemorrhage is plain computed tomography (CT). However, there is an ongoing debate whether the information provided by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) could improve the selection of patients for thrombolysis. We investigated whether the choice of imaging modality (MRI vs. CT) affects therapy safety and the patients' outcome. Methods: Analyses are based on data from a prospective, single-center observational study that included all patients with acute ischemic stroke who received intravenous thrombolysis within 4.5 h. Stroke severity was assessed by the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale. Safety was assessed by rates of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (SICH), brain edema with mass effect and 7-day mortality. Outcome was assessed at 3 months as mortality and proportion of independent patients (modified Rankin Scale score between 0 and 2). Results: We analyzed 345 patients of whom 141 received multimodal MRI and 204 received plain CT prior to treatment. Groups did not differ significantly in terms of age, neurological deficit, rate of elevated glucose level or rate of very high blood pressure. However, patients with CT-based thrombolysis had significantly higher rates of cardiac comorbidities (coronary artery disease, heart failure). In the MRI group, we observed a lower rate of 7-day mortality (1 vs. 10%; p = 0.001), a lower rate of SICH (1 vs. 6%; p = 0.010) and a nonsignificantly lower rate of brain edema with mass effect (2 vs. 6%; n.s.). In multivariable analysis, 7-day mortality was independently associated with MRI-based thrombolysis, even if cardiac comorbidities were taken into account. For mortality at 3 months, there was a nonsignificant difference in favor of the MRI group (16 vs. 23%; n.s.). In multivariable analyses, mortality at 3 months was independently associated with older age, higher stroke severity, brain edema with mass effect, SICH, pneumonia and coronary artery disease. Neither mortality nor independent outcome was influenced by initial imaging modality. Conclusions: Thrombolysis based on multimodal MRI is associated with reduced rates of SICH and early death. Our results suggest that these complications affect survival principally in the acute phase after thrombolysis. However, nonneurological and especially cardiac comorbidities also influence survival after stroke and are underrepresented in stroke patients undergoing MRI. Selection bias has to be considered."
research-article	CED347075	Does Stroke Subtype and Measurement Technique Influence Estimation of Cerebral Autoregulation in Acute Ischaemic Stroke? Does Stroke Subtype and Measurement Technique Influence Estimation of Cerebral Autoregulation in Acute Ischaemic Stroke? Background: It is known that dynamic cerebral autoregulation (dCA) is acutely impaired following ischaemic stroke (IS). However, the influence of stroke subtype, the affected (AF) and unaffected (UA) hemispheres, and the effects of a methodological approach on dCA estimates in stroke are all inconclusive. Therefore, we studied cortical and subcortical acute IS (AIS) patients to test the primary hypotheses that (1) dCA is impaired in stroke subtypes when compared to controls, (2) dCA impairment is more pronounced in the AF compared with the UA hemisphere, and (3) similar results are obtained with both spontaneous blood pressure (BP) fluctuation techniques, and sudden induced BP changes by thigh cuff deflation. Methods: We assessed the dCA values in AIS patients and in healthy controls (n = 10). The AIS patient group consisted of anterior circulation cortical (n = 11) and subcortical (n = 11) strokes within 48 h of symptom onset. Cerebral blood flow velocity was measured using transcranial Doppler ultrasound, and BP measurements were recorded before, during and after the release of bilateral thigh cuffs in 10 controls (7 males) of a mean age of 59 ±15 years (range 31-75), 11 cortical strokes (7 males) of a mean of age 65 ± 19 years (range 25-88) and 11 subcortical strokes (7 males) of a mean age of 60 ± 18 years (range 39-85). Autoregulation index (ARI) estimates, calculated using spontaneous fluctuations and thigh cuff manoeuvre, were derived. Differences in ARI (Tiecks' model) were tested with repeated-measures ANOVA. Results: A total of 22 patients were included, comprising 11 subcortical (lacunar clinical syndrome) and 11 cortical strokes (total anterior circulation stroke/partial anterior circulation syndrome). Of the 10 control subjects, 1 later withdrew because of intolerance to the thigh cuffs. Similar ARI estimates were obtained in both groups, whether assessed from spontaneous fluctuations or thigh cuff measurements (p = 0.37). ARI differences were not significantly different between hemispheres for both control and stroke populations. ARI was significantly impaired in AIS patients compared to age-, sex- and BP-matched control subjects, with a greater impairment of dCA observed in cortical IS. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest that both spontaneous fluctuations and thigh cuff deflation techniques are able to provide reliable estimates of ARI, with the estimates from both spontaneous fluctuations and thigh cuff deflation techniques being in keeping with those reported elsewhere in the literature. dCA was impaired following AIS compared to controls when stroke subtype was considered. Importantly, no differences were observed between UA and AF. This has implications for the assessment of CA after stroke and reinforces the need to define a ‘gold standard' test for the investigation of CA.
research-article	CED348310	"Dimensions of Subcortical Infarcts Associated with First- to Third-Order Branches of the Basal Ganglia Arteries Dimensions of Subcortical Infarcts Associated with First- to Third-Order Branches of the Basal Ganglia Arteries Background: It has been described that lacunar infarct is characterized by its smallish size (15-20 mm) in the axial plane. However, the size of the basal ganglia artery responsible for this type of infarct is uncertain. Detection of small arterial occlusion is not possible with current angiography, hindering correlation of arterial occlusion with subcortical infarct size. Recently, investigators have published microangiographic templates of arteries supplying the basal ganglia. These templates display first-order (proximal) to third-order (distal) branching of these arteries and can help with estimating the likely site of arterial disease in subcortical infarcts. We correlated the dimensions of subcortical infarcts with the order of arterial branching described in a microangiographic template. Such data may provide further clues about the type of arteries associated with subcortical infarcts and assist in refining the concept of lacunar infarction. Method: Patients with subcortical infarcts on MR imaging (MRI) admitted to our institution between 2009 and 2011 were included in the study. Infarcts were manually segmented and registered to a standard brain template. These segmented infarcts were scaled and overlapped with published microangiographic templates, and used by 6 raters who independently estimated the branching order of arterial disease that might result in these infarcts. We used regression analysis to relate these ratings to infarct dimensions. Results: Among 777 patients, there were 33 (58% male) patients with subcortical infarcts. The mean age was 63.1 ± 15.1 years. Infarct dimensions for the groups were as follows: group 1 (first-order branch): height 37.6 ± 7.4 mm, horizontal width 21.2 ± 11.6 mm, anterior-posterior length 36.8 ± 20.1 mm; group 2 (second-order branch): height 25.2 ± 7.9 mm, horizontal width 16.6 ± 22.8 mm, anterior-posterior length 16.1 ± 8.0 mm; group 3 (third-order branch): height 11.6 ± 5.7 mm, axial width 5.3 ± 3.1 mm, anterior-posterior length 5.5 ± 3.8 mm. Increasing vessel branching order (from large to small vessels) was linearly and negatively associated with infarct height (β = -16.7 mm per change in branching order disease, 95% CI -20.3, -13.1 mm, p &lt; 0.01) and anterior-posterior length (β = -16.8 mm per change in branching order disease, 95% CI -23.2, -10.5 mm, p &lt; 0.01). Discussion: Based on MRI infarct dimensions and a microangiographic template, it may be possible to estimate the branching order of the artery involved in subcortical infarcts. Further, our small data set suggests that reliance on an axial dimension of 15-20 mm may not be the best approach to classifying lacunar infarct. This finding needs to be confirmed in a larger data set."
research-article	CED348313	"The Relationship between Neurological Worsening and Lesion Patterns in Patients with Acute Middle Cerebral Artery Stenosis The Relationship between Neurological Worsening and Lesion Patterns in Patients with Acute Middle Cerebral Artery Stenosis Background: Intracranial atherosclerotic disease is one of the most common causes of ischemic stroke especially in Asians, Hispanics and blacks. Although middle cerebral artery (MCA) stenosis is increasingly being recognized with the advent of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, few studies have focused on acute neurological worsening (NW) in patients with MCA stenosis. We investigated the relationship between NW and lesion patterns detected by diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). Methods: We studied 44 consecutive patients out of a total of 2,863 consecutive patients who had symptomatic lesions in the territory of the MCA and in whom MRA and/or conventional angiography showed isolated MCA stenosis ≥50% in the MCA trunk. Acute DWI lesion patterns were classified as follows: (1) pial artery territory infarcts (PAI); (2) small cortical and/or subcortical infarcts (SCS); (3) deep penetrating artery territory infarcts (DPI); (4) cortical border zone infarcts (CBZ), and (5) internal border zone infarcts (IBZ). NW was defined as worsening by ≥2 points on the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) during the first 7 days. Functional outcome was assessed by the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 3 months after stroke onset. Poor outcome was defined as ≥3 on the mRS. The severity of MCA stenosis on MRA was further categorized as 50-75% (moderate) and &gt;75% or focal signal loss with the presence of distal MCA signal (severe). Results: There were 14 patients (31.8%) who showed NW and 16 patients (36.3%) who showed poor outcomes. Nine of the 14 patients with NW showed poor outcomes (64.2%). The most frequent lesions in the present study were SCS (n = 16, 36.3%), followed by IBZ (n = 12, 27.2%) and DPI (n = 11, 25.0%). Prevalence of IBZ was significantly higher in the group with NW compared to that without NW (p = 0.0081), while the prevalence of SCS, DPI, PAI and CBZ did not differ between the two groups. Logistic regression analysis showed significantly high age- and sex-adjusted odds ratios (ORs) for NW only for IBZ (OR 10.9, p = 0.0051). The degree of stenosis did not correlate with NW and lesion patterns. Conclusions: Only IBZ among various lesion patterns correlated strongly with NW. IBZ are considered to be more associated with hemodynamic compromise, while embolic pathogeneses contribute more to CBZ or SCS. Early interventional medical treatments such as thrombolytic or anti-platelet therapy or stenting should be considered in cases of IBZ in MCA stenosis."
research-article	CED348683	"Water-Swallowing Test: Screening for Aspiration in Stroke Patients Water-Swallowing Test: Screening for Aspiration in Stroke Patients Background and Purpose: The water-swallowing test (WST) is frequently used in clinical practice as a functional assessment to detect aspiration and prevent pneumonia. It is a standardized test used all over the world, but the amount of water given varies depending on the examiner. Furthermore, there are very few reports on the simultaneous performance of the WST and videofluorography (VF). This study compared the amount of swallowed water to investigate the reliability of WST to exclude aspiration following acute stroke. Methods: We assessed 111 stroke patients (65 men and 46 women) with suspected dysphagia/difficulty in swallowing and performed VF upon obtaining consent from the patients and their families. Patients were aged between 20 and 98 years (65.6 ± 13.4 years); 64 had cerebral infarction, 26 cerebral hemorrhage, 13 subarachnoid hemorrhage, and 8 had other cerebrovascular disease. The time from stroke onset to VF was 16.6 ± 10.3 days (range, 2-55). WSTs using 5, 10, 30, and 60 ml and the modified WST (MWST) were performed during VF. Results: We found that the number of instances of choking, cough, wet voice, and aspiration increased with higher amounts of water. The sensitivity and specificity of WST for aspiration ranged from 34.8 to 55.7% and from 78.9 to 93.2%, respectively. The MWST, which used only 3 ml of water, yielded a sensitivity of 55.3% and a specificity of 80.8% for aspiration. There was a positive correlation between the time for one swallow and age, but there was no difference between genders. There was also no connection between clinical findings during WST or the presence of aspiration with the number of swallows, swallowing speed, or time for one swallow. Conclusions: WSTs are not as powerful as VF as a screening instrument in acute stroke. WSTs with more water detected aspiration with greater sensitivity, but there is no justification for overconfidence when investigating aspiration. We recommend using WST as well as VF to investigate swallowing in stroke patients."
systematic-review	CED351209	Poststroke Knowledge and Symptom Awareness: A Global Issue for Secondary Stroke Prevention Poststroke Knowledge and Symptom Awareness: A Global Issue for Secondary Stroke Prevention Background: Stroke survivors are at a substantial risk of repeat stroke. Despite this, many stroke survivors continue their unhealthy prestroke lifestyles. Lack of knowledge related to stroke and stroke risk has been proposed as one contributor to the continuance of unhealthy lifestyles. A comprehensive literature currently exists related to knowledge of stroke and its risk factors and recognition of stroke symptoms in the general population, but less is known about these issues among stroke survivors who are at a higher risk for stroke. The purpose of this review was to examine stroke knowledge among stroke survivors. Methods: Data sources were MEDLINE, CINAHL and the Cochrane Library, and the reference lists of published papers were searched to identify relevant studies. We extracted data related to stroke knowledge (general and risk factors) and symptom awareness from studies designed to examine stroke knowledge among stroke survivors. For the study design, we completed a systematic review of stroke knowledge (general information, stroke symptoms and risk factors) among stroke survivors. Standardized and nonstandardized measurements were taken of: (1) general stroke knowledge, i.e. cause, type (ischemic vs. hemorrhage), location, body parts affected and what action to take in the event of having a stroke, (2) stroke awareness (common warning signs and symptoms such as: weakness/numbness, confusion/difficulty speaking, difficulty seeing in one or both eyes, difficulty walking, headache of no known cause) and (3) knowledge or identification of common stroke risk factors (e.g. high blood pressure, high blood sugar,high cholesterol,obesityand smoking). Due to limited information on outcomes and the heterogeneity of the studies, a formal meta-analysis was not conducted. Instead, we completed a qualitative aggregation of study findings. Results: Data from 18 studies spanning 8 countries and including 8,147 participants met the inclusion criteria for this review. These studies offer evidence that many stroke survivors do not have a greater knowledge of stroke despite their having experienced such a life-changing event. Conclusions: Due to their limited knowledge, many stroke survivors may not engage in the required preventive behaviors for good health and reducing the risk of a stroke recurring. More specifically, stroke survivors may understand the cause of their stroke but not be able to identify many stroke symptoms or common stroke risk factors. Stroke education programs should be designed to improve stroke knowledge and facilitate the actions necessary for reducing stroke risk.
systematic-review	CED356524	Shunting in Acute Cerebral Venous Thrombosis: A Systematic Review Shunting in Acute Cerebral Venous Thrombosis: A Systematic Review Background and Purpose: The efficacy of cerebrospinal fluid shunting to reduce intracranial hypertension and prevent fatal brain herniation in acute cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is unknown. Method: From the International Study on Cerebral Vein and Dural Sinus Thrombosis (ISCVT) and a systematic literature review, we retrieved acute CVT patients treated only with shunting (external ventricular drain, ventriculoperitoneal or ventriculojugular shunt). Outcome was classified at 6 months and final follow-up by the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). Results: 15 patients were collected (9 from the ISCVT and 6 from the review) who were treated with a shunt (external ventricular drain in 6 patients, a ventriculoperitoneal shunt in 8 patients or an unspecified type of shunt in another one). Eight patients (53.3%) regained independence (mRS 0-2), while 2 patients (13.3%) were left with a severe handicap (mRS 4-6) and 4 (26.7%) died despite treatment. Five patients with parenchymal lesions were shunted within 48 h from admission deterioration, 4 with an external ventricular drain: 2 (40%) recovered to independence, 2 (40%) had a severe handicap and 1 (20%) died. In contrast, all 3 patients with intracranial hypertension and no parenchymal lesions receiving a ventriculoperitoneal shunt later than 48 h regained independence. Conclusion and Implications: A quarter of acute CVT patients treated with a shunt died, and only half regained independence. With the limitation of the small number of subjects, this review suggests that shunting does not appear to be effective in preventing death from brain herniation in acute CVT. We cannot exclude that shunting may benefit patients with sustained intracranial hypertension and no parenchymal lesions.
systematic-review	CED356840	"Systemic Thrombolysis for Cerebral Venous and Dural Sinus Thrombosis: A Systematic Review Systemic Thrombolysis for Cerebral Venous and Dural Sinus Thrombosis: A Systematic Review Background: The use of thrombolytics is frequently considered in patients with cerebral venous and dural sinus thrombosis (CVT) who deteriorate despite anticoagulant therapy. Purpose: To collect all the published information about the use of systemic thrombolysis in CVT in order to assess its efficacy and safety. Methods: We performed a PubMed search, checked all reference lists of studies found and used data from the International Study on Cerebral Vein and Dural Sinus Thrombosis (ISCVT). Outcome was classified at the last available follow-up by the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). The cases were stratified according to variables that might influence outcome. Results: A total of 16 reports (26 patients, 2 from the ISCVT and 24 from the systematic review of the literature) were included. No randomized clinical trial was found. Seven patients presented with isolated intracranial hypertension syndrome (26.9%), 17 with encephalopathy (65.4%) and 2 were comatose (7.7%). The superior sagittal sinus was the one most often affected (n = 21; 80.8%), and there was thrombosis of the deep cerebral venous system in 5 patients (19.2%). Urokinase was the thrombolytic agent most frequently administered (n = 19; 73.1%), whereas streptokinase and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator were used in 2 cases each (7.7%). Intracranial hemorrhages occurred in 3 cases (11.5%). Extracranial hemorrhages occurred in 5 cases (19.2%), and overall there were 3 cases of serious bleeding (11.5%), including 2 deaths (7.7%). Partial or complete recanalization was verified in most patients (n = 16; 61.5%). The survival rate was 92.3% (24/26 patients). At the last available follow-up, 22/25 patients regained independency (mRS scores 0-2; 88%), 2/25 died (mRS score 6; 8%) and 1/25 was severely dependent (mRS scores 3-5; 4%). Conclusions: In all, 88% of the CVT patients treated with systemic thrombolysis regained their independency, but 2 deaths associated with intracranial hemorrhage occurred. The mortality rate and disability at the last available follow-up were similar to those found in 2 previous systematic reviews concerning the use of thrombolytics in CVT. Due to the small sample size and lack of controls, the efficacy of systemic thrombolysis in acute CVT cannot be assessed from the published information. Concerning safety, a nonnegligible proportion of bleedings was reported."
systematic-review	CED360754	Accuracy of the Spot Sign on Computed Tomography Angiography as a Predictor of Haematoma Enlargement after Acute Spontaneous Intracerebral Haemorrhage: A Systematic Review Accuracy of the Spot Sign on Computed Tomography Angiography as a Predictor of Haematoma Enlargement after Acute Spontaneous Intracerebral Haemorrhage: A Systematic Review Background: A common early complication of intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) is haematoma enlargement (HE), a strong independent predictor of a poor outcome. Therapeutic options to limit haematoma progression are currently scarce. Haemostatic therapy may be effective in patients with ICH, but it carries the risk of thromboembolic events in unselected patients. Accurate patient selection would, therefore, be of key importance for delivering potentially successful therapeutic strategies. Currently, there is no gold standard to accurately predict HE. The presence of contrast extravasation within the haematoma on computed tomography angiography (CTA), the ‘spot sign', has been reported in several studies and seems a particularly promising marker but lacks a standardised evaluation so far. Summary: We conducted a systematic review of published data to address the research question: In adults with acute spontaneous ICH, how accurately does the spot sign predict HE on follow-up imaging and thus poor functional outcome or mortality? We searched PubMed and Embase databases (from 1980 to May 2012), using a highly sensitive search strategy and including all studies involving adult patients with spontaneous ICH evaluated with CTA and follow-up CT scans, reporting any measure of clinical outcome, and reporting or allowing calculation of accuracy measures of the spot sign in predicting HE and clinical outcome. Baseline characteristics, accuracy measures and effect measures, as well as bias assessment, were reported according to PRISMA recommendations. The quality of the studies was appraised using an adapted version of the REMARK reporting recommendations. From 259 potentially relevant studies, we finally selected 6 studies (1 of them was a multicentre cohort study) covering a total of 709 patients. Studies varied substantially in terms of size, methodological quality, definitions of terms, outcomes selected and results. In particular, definition of the spot sign was not consistent in all studies. Furthermore, the only outcome measure consistently available was HE, while definitions and analyses of clinical outcomes seemed not adequate. Lastly, the choice of candidate variables for univariate and multivariate analyses did not include all determinants of HE and poor functional outcome. High heterogeneity was demonstrated (I2: 94% for HE) with substantial potential of bias. Key Messages: Studies of the spot sign are diverse and therefore complex to interpret. Our research question could not be answered due to heterogeneity and potential of bias in the selected studies. Further appropriately powered studies using standardised definitions and taking all predictors of HE and poor clinical outcome into account are required for a proper clinical implementation.
meta-analysis	CED369122	"A Meta-Analysis of the Relationship between MTHFR Gene A1298C Polymorphism and the Risk of Adult Stroke A Meta-Analysis of the Relationship between MTHFR Gene A1298C Polymorphism and the Risk of Adult Stroke Background: The association between methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene A1298C polymorphism and adult stroke remains controversial. The present article was designed to clarify this relationship through pooled analysis of the numerous epidemiological studies focusing on this association. Methods: We comprehensively searched all published papers in electronic database including PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Chinese Biomedical Literature on disc (CBMdisc) and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) up to 2013. The pooled odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for allelic (C allele vs. A allele), additive (CC vs. AA), dominant (CC+AC vs. AA), and recessive (CC vs. AA+AC) models were calculated. Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were performed to detect the heterogeneity and examine the reliability of results, respectively. Begg's funnel plots and Egger's regression test were used to assess the potential publication bias. Results: A total of fifteen studies containing 2,361 cases and 2,653 controls were included in the final meta-analysis. The combined results of overall analysis showed that there was significant association between MTHFR gene A1298C polymorphism and adult stroke (allelic model: OR = 1.36, 95% CI = 1.11-1.67; additive model: OR = 1.88, 95% CI = 1.12-3.18; dominant model: OR = 1.33, 95% CI = 1.08-1.65 and recessive model: OR = 1.77, 95% CI = 1.07-2.94, respectively). On subgroup analysis by ethnicity of study population, significant association was shown in meta-analysis based on Asian population (allelic model: OR = 1.40, 95% CI = 1.19-1.65; additive model: OR = 2.58, 95% CI = 1.34-4.96; dominant model: OR = 1.44, 95% CI = 1.20-1.73 and recessive model: OR = 2.12, 95% CI = 1.20-3.76, respectively), but not in Caucasian population (allelic model: OR = 1.30, 95% CI = 0.93-1.82; additive model: OR = 1.65, 95% CI = 0.81-3.33; dominant model: OR = 1.17, 95% CI = 0.86-1.61 and recessive model: OR = 1.70, 95% CI = 0.83-3.50, respectively). In addition, the heterogeneity was effectively removed or decreased by limiting the included studies with population of Asian ethnicity. Furthermore, the corresponding pooled ORs were not materially changed in all genetic models of meta-analysis after limiting the included studies with population-based controls. However, except the recessive model, publication bias presented in the allelic, additive, dominant models identified by the Begg's funnel plots and Egger's regression test. Conclusions: In conclusion, the overall analysis suggests that MTHFR gene A1298C polymorphism plays an important role in the development of adult stroke. Genotype CC of MTHFR-1298A/C could increase the risk of stroke and may act as a predictor for clinical evaluation, especially in the Asian population. More studies with large-scale and different ethnicities are required to further confirm our findings. i 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel"
meta-analysis	CED369777	"Cerebral Small Vessel Disease and Renal Function: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Cerebral Small Vessel Disease and Renal Function: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The small vessel disease (SVD) that appears in the brain may be part of a multisystem disorder affecting other vascular beds such as the kidney and retina. Because renal failure is associated with both stroke and white matter hyperintensities we hypothesised that small vessel (lacunar) stroke would be more strongly associated with renal failure than cortical stroke. Therefore, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to establish first if lacunar stroke was associated with the renal function, and second, if cerebral small vessel disease seen on the MRI of patients without stroke was more common in patients with renal failure. Methods: We searched Medline and EMBASE for studies in adults with cerebral SVD (lacunar stroke or white matter hyper intensities (WMH) on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)), in which renal function was assessed (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) or proteinuria). We extracted data on SVD diagnosis, renal function, demographics and comorbidities. We performed two meta-analyses: first, we calculated the odds of renal impairment in lacunar (small vessel) ischaemic stroke compared to other ischaemic stroke subtypes (non-small vessel disease); and second, we calculated the odds of renal impairment in non-stroke individuals with WMH on MRI compared to individuals without WMH. We then performed a sensitivity analysis by excluding studies with certain characteristics and repeating the meta-analysis calculation. Results: After screening 11,001 potentially suitable titles, we included 37 papers reporting 32 studies of 20,379 subjects: 15 of stroke patients and 17 of SVD features in non-stroke patients. To diagnose lacunar stroke, 13/15 of the studies used risk factor-based classification (none used diffusion-weighted MRI). 394/1,119 (35%) of patients with lacunar stroke had renal impairment compared with 1,443/4,217 (34%) of patients with non-lacunar stroke, OR 0.88, (95% CI 0.6-1.30). In individuals without stroke the presence of SVD was associated with an increased risk of renal impairment (whether proteinuria or reduced eGFR) OR 2.33 (95% CI 1.80-3.01), when compared to those without SVD. After adjustment for age and hypertension, 15/21 studies still reported a significant association between renal impairment and SVD. Conclusion: We found no specific association between renal impairment and lacunar stroke, but we did find that in individuals who had not had a stroke, having more SVD features on imaging was associated with a worse renal function, which remained significant after controlling for hypertension. However, this finding does not exclude a powerful co-associate effect of age or vascular risk factor exposure. Future research should subtype lacunar stroke sensitively and control for major risk factors."
meta-analysis	CED369778	"Aspirin plus Clopidogrel as Secondary Prevention after Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Aspirin plus Clopidogrel as Secondary Prevention after Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Antiplatelet agents are the mainstay for secondary prevention of non-cardioembolic stroke. This systematic review examined the safety and efficacy of short-, middle-, and long-term aspirin in combination with clopidogrel as secondary prevention of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) of presumed arterial origin. Methods: PubMed, EmBase, and CENTRAL were searched up to May 2014. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared aspirin plus clopidogrel versus aspirin or clopidogrel as secondary prevention of stroke or TIA of arterial origin were included. The analyses were stratified into short-term (≤3 months), middle-term (&gt;3 months and &lt;1 year), and long-term (≥1 year). Outcomes were compared using risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI). Results: Eight RCTs (20,728 patients) were included in the overall analysis. Compared with aspirin or clopidogrel alone, the complete analysis of all the data indicated that the combination therapy significantly reduced the risk of stroke recurrence (RR, 0.82; 95% CI 0.70-0.96, p = 0.01) and major vascular events (RR, 0.84; 95% CI 0.73-0.96, p &lt; 0.01). But the risk of hemorrhagic stroke (RR, 1.59; 95% CI 1.08-2.33, p = 0.02) and major bleeding (RR, 1.83; 95% CI 1.37-2.45, p &lt; 0.01) was increased. No RCT studied middle-term combination therapy. The analyses were therefore stratified into only two subgroups, short- and long-term treatment. Stratified analysis of short-term treatment showed that relative to monotherapy, the drug combination reduced the risk of stroke recurrence (RR, 0.69; 95% CI 0.59-0.81, p &lt; 0.01) and did not increase the risk of hemorrhagic stroke (RR, 1.23; 95% CI 0.50-3.04, p = 0.65) and major bleeding events (RR, 2.17; 95% CI 0.18-25.71, p = 0.54). Short-term combination therapy was associated with a significantly lower risk of major vascular events (RR, 0.70; 95% CI 0.69 to 0.82, p &lt; 0.01). Stratified analysis of long-term treatment revealed that the combination treatment did not decrease the risk of stroke recurrence (RR, 0.92; 95% CI 0.83-1.03, p = 0.15), but was associated with a significantly higher risk of hemorrhagic stroke (RR, 1.67; 95% CI 1.10-2.56, p = 0.02) and major bleeding events (RR, 1.90; 95% CI 1.46-2.48, p &lt; 0.01). Long-term combination therapy failed to reduce the risk of major vascular events (RR, 0.92; 95% CI 0.84-1.03, p = 0.09). Conclusions: Compared with monotherapy, short-term aspirin in combination with clopidogrel is more effective as secondary prevention of stroke or TIA without increasing the risk of hemorrhagic stroke and major bleeding events. Long-term combination therapy does not reduce the risk of stroke recurrence, and is associated with increased major bleeding events. The clinical applicability of the findings of this systematic review, however, needs to be confirmed in future clinical trials."
research-article	CED373918	"Detection of Symptomatic Carotid Plaque Using Source Data from MR and CT Angiography: A Correlative Study Detection of Symptomatic Carotid Plaque Using Source Data from MR and CT Angiography: A Correlative Study Background: Carotid plaque MRI has been a useful method to characterize vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque elements. Recent investigations have suggested that source images from CT angiography (CTA) and MR angiography (MRA) can identify the simple high-risk features of symptom-producing carotid artery plaque. We studied the correlation and relative diagnostic accuracies of CTA and MRA source images in detecting symptomatic carotid artery plaque. Methods: Subjects were eligible if they had carotid stenosis between 50 and 99% and had MRA and CTA exams performed within 10 days of one another. We measured the soft (non-calcified) plaque and hard (calcified) plaque thickness on CTA axial source images and intraplaque high-intensity signal (IHIS) on 3D-time-of-flight MRA source images in subjects. We assessed whether a correlation existed between increasing CTA soft plaque thicknesses and the presence of MRA IHIS using the Student's t-test. We calculated the differences in sensitivity and specificity measures of CTA and MRA source-imaging data with the occurrence of recent ipsilateral stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) as the reference standard. We also performed logistic regression analyses to evaluate the predictive strength of plaque showing both IHIS and increased CTA soft plaque thickness in predicting symptomatic disease status. Results: Of 1994 screened patients, 48 arteries met the final inclusion criteria with MRA and CTA performed within 10 days of one another. The mean and median time between CTA and MRA exams were 2.0 days and 1 day, respectively. A total of 34 of 48 stenotic vessels (70.8%) were responsible for giving rise to ipsilateral stroke or TIA. CTA mean soft plaque thickness was significantly greater (4.47 vs. 2.30 mm, p &lt; 0.0001) in patients with MRA-defined IHIS, while CTA hard plaque thickness was significantly greater (2.09 vs. 1.16 mm, p = 0.0134) in patients without MRA evidence of IHIS. CTA soft plaque thickness measurements were more sensitive than MRA IHIS (91.2 vs. 67.6%, p = 0.011) in detecting symptomatic plaque, while differences in specificity were not significantly different (p = 0.1573). In the subset of patients with both IHIS on MRA and plaque thickness &gt;2.4 mm on CTA, the odds ratio of detecting symptomatic plaque, corrected for stenosis severity, was 45.3 (p &lt; 0.0005). Conclusions: Unprocessed source images from CTA and MRA, which are routinely evaluated for clinical studies demonstrate the highly correlated presence of IHIS and increasing soft plaque thickness. In particular, plaque that shows high-risk features on both MRA and CTA are very strongly associated with symptom-producing carotid plaque. With further validation, such techniques are promising practical methods of extracting risk information from routine neck angiographic imaging."
systematic-review	CED381108	Moving Beyond Luminal Stenosis: Imaging Strategies for Stroke Prevention in Asymptomatic Carotid Stenosis Moving Beyond Luminal Stenosis: Imaging Strategies for Stroke Prevention in Asymptomatic Carotid Stenosis Background: With progressive improvements in medical therapy and resultant reductions in stroke risk, luminal stenosis criteria are no longer adequate to inform decisions to pursue surgical revascularization in patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Summary: In this evidence-based review, we discuss the imaging-based risk stratification strategies that take into account factors beyond luminal stenosis measurements, including cerebral hemodynamics and plaque composition. The existing literature lends support to the use of certain imaging tests in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis including cerebrovascular reserve testing, MRI of plaque composition, ultrasound of plaque echolucency, and transcranial Doppler evaluation for microemboli. The highest quality evidence thus far in the literature includes only systematic reviews and meta-analyses of cohort studies with no randomized trials having yet been performed to show how these newer imaging biomarkers could be used to inform treatment decisions in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Beyond the need for randomized trials, there are additional important steps needed to improve the relevance of evidence supporting risk assessment strategies. Imaging studies evaluating the risk of stroke in carotid disease should clearly define asymptomatic versus symptomatic disease, use uniform definitions of clearly defined outcome measures such as ipsilateral stroke, ensure that imaging interpretations are performed in a manner blinded to treatments and other risk factors, and include cohorts which are on modern intensive medical therapy. Such studies of risk stratification for asymptomatic carotid stenosis will be most valuable if they can integrate multiple high-risk features (including clinical risk factors) into a multi-factorial risk assessment strategy in a manner that is relatively simple to implement and generalizable across a wide range of practice settings. Key Messages: Together, modern imaging strategies allow for a more mechanistic assessment of stroke risk in carotid disease compared to luminal stenosis measurements alone, which, with further validation in randomized controlled trials, may improve current efforts at stroke prevention in asymptomatic carotid stenosis.
meta-analysis	CED437339	"Ultrasound Characteristics of Symptomatic Carotid Plaques: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Ultrasound Characteristics of Symptomatic Carotid Plaques: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Ultrasound is the most commonly used imaging modality for assessing carotid artery stenosis. A number of studies have demonstrated that surface irregularities, heterogeneous echotexture and hypoechoic plaques are risk factors for acute ischemic stroke. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature to better define the risk of stroke based on the sonographic characteristics of carotid plaques. Materials and Methods: We performed a comprehensive search for studies reporting imaging findings of symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid plaques on ultrasound using MEDLINE and EMBASE. We included both case-control and cohort studies examining the relationship between complex plaque and acute ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack. Complex plaque was defined as plaque that had any of the following characteristics: heterogeneous echogenicity, echolucency, neovascularization, surface irregularity, ulceration, and intraplaque motion. Meta-analyses using the random-effects model were performed for complex plaque and each of the individual complex plaque characteristics. p &lt; 0.05 was considered statistically significant. We explored the impact of publication bias by constructing funnel plots and testing their symmetry. We conducted the meta-analysis using Comprehensive Meta-analysis version 2.2, Englewood, N.J., USA. Results: A total of 1,013 articles were screened and 23 studies with 6,706 carotid plaques were included. Ultrasound plaque characteristics with a higher prevalence in individuals with symptomatic compared to asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis included plaque neovascularity (OR = 19.68, 95% CI = 3.14-123.16), complex plaque (OR = 5.12, 95% CI = 3.42-7.67), plaque ulceration (OR = 3.58, 95% CI = 1.66-7.71), plaque echolucency (OR = 3.99, 95% CI = 3.06-5.19) and intraplaque motion (OR = 1.57, 95% CI = 1.02-2.41). Variables not associated with symptom status included heterogenous echotexture (OR = 2.68, 95% CI = 0.56-12.80) and surface irregularity without ulceration (OR = 2.38, 95% CI = 0.70-8.11). No evidence of publication bias was observed based on Eggers test (p value of 0.05 for complex plaque and 0.53 for plaque echolucency). The remaining plaque features had insufficient data to assess for publication bias. Conclusions: Our meta-analysis and systematic review of the literature demonstrated that plaques with complex features, particularly those with echolucency, neovascularization, ulceration and intraplaque motion are associated with ischemic symptoms. Assessment of carotid plaque on ultrasound may provide stroke risk information beyond measurement of luminal stenosis. Thus, sonographic evaluation of carotid artery stenosis should focus on the detection of these plaque characteristics in addition to quantifying the degree of stenosis."
meta-analysis	CED438494	"Plasma Biomarkers of Inflammation, Endothelial Function and Hemostasis in Cerebral Small Vessel Disease Plasma Biomarkers of Inflammation, Endothelial Function and Hemostasis in Cerebral Small Vessel Disease Background: The cause of lacunar ischemic stroke, a clinical feature of cerebral small vessel disease (SVD), is largely unknown. Inflammation and endothelial dysfunction have been implicated. Plasma biomarkers could provide mechanistic insights but current data are conflicting. White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are an important imaging biomarker of SVD. It is unknown if plasma biomarkers add predictive capacity beyond age and vascular risk factors in explaining WMH. Methods: We prospectively recruited patients presenting with non-disabling ischemic stroke, classifying them clinically and with the help of MRI as lacunar or cortical. We measured biomarkers of inflammation, endothelial dysfunction and hemostasis for &gt;1 month after stroke and compared biomarker levels between stroke subtypes. We quantitatively calculated WMH. We used multiple linear regression analysis to model WMH as a function of age, sex, hypertension and smoking (the baseline model). We fitted exploratory models using plasma biomarkers as predictor variables to assess model improvement over baseline. Results: We recruited 125 patients. The lacunar group (n = 65) had lower tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) levels in unadjusted (7.39 vs. 8.59 ng/ml, p = 0.029) and adjusted (p = 0.035) analyses compared with the cortical group (n = 60). There were no significant differences in the other plasma biomarkers. The results for t-PA were consistent with an updated meta-analysis, although the effect remains non-significant (standardized mean difference -0.08 (95% CI -0.25 to 0.09)). The baseline regression model explained 29% of the variance in quantitative WMH (R2 0.289). Inflammatory biomarkers showed minor improvement over baseline (R2 0.291), but the other plasma biomarkers did not improve the baseline model. Conclusion: Plasma t-PA levels appear to differ between lacunar and cortical stroke subtypes, late after stroke, independent of age, sex and vascular risk factors and may reflect endothelial dysfunction. Except for a minor additional predictive effect of inflammatory markers, plasma biomarkers do not relate to WMH severity in this small stroke population."
meta-analysis	CED441097	"Effects of Early Hypertension Control after Ischaemic Stroke on the Outcome: A Meta-Analysis Effects of Early Hypertension Control after Ischaemic Stroke on the Outcome: A Meta-Analysis Background: Accumulating evidence suggests that high blood pressure (BP) increases the risk of cerebral oedema and haemorrhagic transformation of the ischaemic stroke (IS), and that low BP in acute ischaemic stroke (AIS) is associated with a poor prognosis. The best possible management of hypertension after AIS is still uncertain. Materials and Methods: English databases were searched to identify relevant randomized controlled trials assessing the effects of early BP lowering (started within the first 48 h) after IS on outcome from January 1990 to August 2015. We set strict inclusion criteria and used the Review Manager 5.2 software from Cochrane Collaboration to calculate the combined risk ratio (RR). Result: Eight studies met our criteria. Early BP lowering after AIS did not significantly affect the risk of early and long-term death (RR 1.22; 95% CI 0.69-2.16 and RR 1.03; 95% CI 0.62-1.71), early and long-term dependency (RR 1.02; 95% CI 0.94-1.10 and RR 1.07; 95% CI 0.84-1.36), early and long-term death or dependency (RR 1.04; 95% CI 0.94-1.19 and RR 1.00; 95% CI 0.95-1.05), long-term stroke recurrence (RR 0.74; 95% CI 0.49-1.11), long-term myocardial infarction (RR 0.99; 95% CI 0.27-3.61), and long-term vascular events (RR 0.97; 95% CI 0.72-1.31). Conclusion: Our results revealed neither support nor opposition to early BP lowering (started within 48 h) after AIS; individualized BP management based on the patients' condition may be a good choice."
meta-analysis	CED441803	"Impact of Collateral Status on Successful Revascularization in Endovascular Treatment: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Impact of Collateral Status on Successful Revascularization in Endovascular Treatment: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Pre-treatment collateral status may be associated with the rates of successful revascularization in acute ischemic stroke patients receiving endovascular treatment (EVT). We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to synthesize relevant evidence currently available. Methods: Relevant full-text articles published in English since January 1, 2000, reporting associations between collateral status and successful reperfusion and/or recanalization in acute ischemic stroke patients receiving EVT in cohort or case-control studies, or randomized clinical trials, were retrieved through search of PubMed. Study selection, data extraction and study quality assessment were carried out by 2 investigators. Risk ratios (RR) were pooled for good vs. poor collaterals for the outcomes of successful reperfusion and recanalization, based on random-effects models. Subgroup analyses were conducted to explore for potential factors that might interfere with the effects of pre-treatment collateral status on reperfusion by EVT. Results: In total, 27 studies (2,366 subjects) were included in qualitative analysis, among which 24 studies (2,239 subjects) were quantitatively analyzed. Overall, good pre-treatment collaterals significantly increased the rate of both successful reperfusion (RR 1.28, 95% CI 1.17-1.40; p &lt; 0.001) and recanalization (RR 1.23, 95% CI 1.06-1.42; p = 0.006), as compared with poor collaterals. Subgroup analyses revealed that the effects of collateral status on successful reperfusion by EVT might be different between populations with different ethnicities. Conclusions: Good pre-treatment collaterals may enhance the rates of successful reperfusion and recanalization in EVT for acute ischemic stroke. This may partly explain the favorable effects of good pre-treatment collaterals on clinical outcomes of stroke patients receiving EVT. Thus, it would be valuable to assess the collateral status prior to EVT in acute ischemic stroke. But studies are needed to further verify if the positive effects of good collaterals on revascularization by EVT are restricted to certain subgroups of patients."
meta-analysis	CED442678	"ApoE Polymorphisms and the Risk of Different Subtypes of Stroke in the Chinese Population: A Comprehensive Meta-Analysis ApoE Polymorphisms and the Risk of Different Subtypes of Stroke in the Chinese Population: A Comprehensive Meta-Analysis Background and Purpose: Numerous studies have evaluated the association between apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene polymorphisms and the risk of different subtypes of stroke. However, the results remain uncertain, and few sources of data specific to the Chinese ethnic population contribute to these outstanding questions. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to derive a more comprehensive estimate of the association between ApoE polymorphisms and stroke risk in the Chinese population. Methods: Case-control studies in Chinese and English publications were identified by searching the PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, China Nation Knowledge Infrastructure Platform, Wanfang, and VIP databases and by hand-searching relevant journals and the reference lists of the retrieved articles. ORs and 95% CIs were applied to assess the strength of the associations. Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were performed to explore between-study heterogeneity. Results: Evidence of a significant association was found between the ApoE ε4 allele and different subtypes of stroke (for ischemic stroke (IS): OR 2.19, 95% CI 1.90-2.52, p &lt; 0.001; for intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH): OR 2.08, 95% CI 1.57-2.75, p &lt; 0.001; and for subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH): OR 2.03, 95% CI 1.28-3.23, p = 0.003) among the Chinese population. In addition, a significant difference in the risk for different subtypes of stroke between ε4 carriers and ε3ε3 genotype carriers was found (for IS: OR 2.41, 95% CI 2.00-2.89, p &lt; 0.001; for ICH: OR 2.41, 95% CI 1.68-3.47, p &lt; 0.001; and for SAH: OR 2.04, 95% CI 1.21-3.45, p = 0.008). Conclusion: The ApoE ε4 allele may predict an increased risk for different subtypes of stroke, including IS, ICH and SAH, in the Chinese population, and the results of this genotypic analysis may help to identify populations at an increased risk for stroke. Further studies with larger sample sizes are needed to confirm our findings."
meta-analysis	CED443485	"Outcome of Surgical or Endovascular Treatment of Giant Intracranial Aneurysms, with Emphasis on Age, Aneurysm Location, and Unruptured Aneuryms - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Outcome of Surgical or Endovascular Treatment of Giant Intracranial Aneurysms, with Emphasis on Age, Aneurysm Location, and Unruptured Aneuryms - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Designing treatment strategies for unruptured giant intracranial aneurysms (GIA) is difficult as evidence of large clinical trials is lacking. We examined the outcome following surgical or endovascular GIA treatment focusing on patient age, GIA location and unruptured GIA. Methods: Medline and Embase were searched for studies reporting on GIA treatment outcome published after January 2000. We calculated the proportion of good outcome (PGO) for all included GIA and for unruptured GIA by meta-analysis using a random effects model. Results: We included 54 studies containing 64 study populations with 1,269 GIA at a median follow-up time (FU-T) of 26.4 months (95% CI 10.8-42.0). PGO was 80.9% (77.4-84.4) in the analysis of all GIA compared to 81.2% (75.3-86.1) in the separate analysis of unruptured GIA. For each year added to patient age, PGO decreased by 0.8%, both for all GIA and unruptured GIA. For all GIA, surgical treatment resulted in a PGO of 80.3% (95% CI 76.0-84.6) compared to 84.2% (78.5-89.8, p = 0.27) after endovascular treatment. In unruptured GIA, PGO was 79.7% (95% CI 71.5-87.8) after surgical treatment and 84.9% (79.1-90.7, p = 0.54) after endovascular treatment. PGO was lower in high quality studies and in studies presenting aggregate instead of individual patient data. In unruptured GIA, the OR for good treatment outcome was 5.2 (95% CI 2.0-13.0) at the internal carotid artery compared to 0.1 (0.1-0.3, p &lt; 0.1) in the posterior circulation. Patient sex, FU-T and prevalence of ruptured GIA were not associated with PGO. Conclusions: We found that the chances of good outcome after surgical or endovascular GIA treatment mainly depend on patient age and aneurysm location rather than on the type of treatment conducted. Our analysis may inform future research on GIA."
systematic-review	CED444069	"Endovascular Treatment of Acute Ischemic Stroke Due to Tandem Occlusions: Large Multicenter Series and Systematic Review Endovascular Treatment of Acute Ischemic Stroke Due to Tandem Occlusions: Large Multicenter Series and Systematic Review Background: Ischemic strokes due to tandem occlusions (TOs) have poor outcomes if they have been treated with only medical interventions. Recent trials demonstrated the effectiveness of endovascular treatment of acute ischemic stroke due to intracranial occlusions; however, most studies excluded patients with TOs. Methods: Retrospective review of prospectively collected thrombectomy databases from 3 stroke centers between 2011 and 2015. Consecutive patients with tandem extracranial steno-occlusive carotid disease and intracranial occlusions who underwent emergent thrombectomy were selected. Angiographic and clinical outcomes were analyzed; baseline and procedural variables were included in univariate and multivariate analyses to define the independent predictors of good outcomes (90-day modified Rankin Scale ≤2). Results: A total of 100 patients met the study inclusion criteria. The mean age was 64.4 ± 12.5, baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) 17.6 ± 5.0, time from last known well to puncture 7.3 ± 5.8 h, and Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score (ASPECTS) 7.5 ± 1.6. Forty percent received intravenous tissue plasminogen activator. Intracranial occlusion sites included: internal carotid artery thrombus, 31%; middle cerebral artery (MCA)-M1, 53%; MCA-M2, 10%; and anterior cerebral artery, 6%. Good outcome was achieved in 42% and successful reperfusion modified thrombolysis in cerebral infarction (mTICI ≥2B) in 88% of the cases, including complete (mTICI 3) reperfusion in 40%. Severe parenchymal hematoma (PH)-2 occurred in 6% of the patients and 90-day mortality was 20%. In the multivariate analysis, younger age (OR 0.93; 95% CI 0.88-0.98; p = 0.004), lower baseline NIHSS (OR 0.84; 95% CI 0.74-0.94; p = 0.003), higher ASPECTS (OR 1.50; 95% CI 1.02-2.19; p = 0.038), and mTICI 3 reperfusion (OR 3.56; 95% CI 1.18-10.76; p = 0.024) were independent predictors of good outcome at 90 days. Conclusions: Acute endovascular treatment of tandem anterior circulation occlusions yields good outcomes and has similar outcome predictors to isolated intracranial occlusions. Given their comparable clinical behavior, these patients should be included in future trials."
systematic-review	CED444282	Cognitive Impairment in Transient Ischemic Attack Patients: A Systematic Review Cognitive Impairment in Transient Ischemic Attack Patients: A Systematic Review Background: Although by definition a transient ischemic attack (TIA) lasts less than 24 h, many patients experience cognitive complaints beyond focal symptom resolution. However, their prevalence, causes and profile are unclear. We therefore performed a systematic review on cognitive impairment after TIA. Summary: Medline and Embase were searched for relevant studies. Risk of bias was assessed, and data synthesis was performed according to the severity of cognitive impairment. Thirteen studies were included, with considerable heterogeneity concerning methods and timing of cognitive testing. Confounding, detection bias and attrition were the main causes of a high risk of bias in several studies. The prevalence of post-TIA mild cognitive impairment ranged from 29 to 68%. Severe cognitive impairment was found in 8-22% of patients. Studies using a cognitive screening instrument and those performed shortly after TIA or several years later, reported the highest frequencies of impairment. Patients evaluated with a screening tool were substantially older than those who underwent a full neuropsychological assessment (weighted mean age difference 10.9 years). Based on limited data, the post-TIA cognitive profile showed prominent executive function deficits. Insufficient data refrained us from drawing conclusions on causality. The few studies that reported neuroimaging results found a minor correlation with cognitive impairment. Key Messages: Mild cognitive impairment is present in more than a third of the TIA patients and has a profile comparable with vascular cognitive impairment. Reported rates of post-TIA cognitive impairment are highly variable and higher frequencies are found with cognitive screening tools. Considerable heterogeneity and insufficient data limit further conclusions about potential causative factors.
research-article	CED445168	Microalbuminuria and the Combination of MRI Markers of Cerebral Small Vessel Disease Microalbuminuria and the Combination of MRI Markers of Cerebral Small Vessel Disease Background: Kidney function has been related to the presence of individual markers of cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD), as lacunes, white matter hyperintensities (WMH) or microbleeds. We aimed at studying the relationship of kidney dysfunction with the combination of several markers of CSVD. Methods: Subjects are those included in the ISSYS cohort (Investigating Silent Strokes in hypertensives: a magnetic resonance imaging study). A scale ranging from 0 to 4 points was applied based on the presence (one point each) of lacunes, deep microbleeds, moderate to extensive basal ganglia enlarged perivascular spaces (EPVS), and periventricular or deep WMH. We determined the creatinine-based glomerular filtration rate and the urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) as markers of kidney function and studied their association with the scale of CSVD in univariate and ordinal logistic regression analyses. Results: Among the 975 patients included, 28.2% presented one or more CSVD markers, being the most prevalent marker (either alone or in combination) basal ganglia EPVS. The UACR was elevated at increasing the scores of the CSVD scale and remained as independent predictor of the combination of markers (common OR per natural log unit increase in UACR: 1.23, 1.07-1.41) after controlling per age, gender, cardiovascular risk, antihypertensive treatment and hypertension duration. In contrast, no associations were found between the CSVD scores and the creatinine-based estimated glomerular filtration rate. Conclusions: A significant proportion of stroke-free hypertensives present at least one imaging marker of CSVD. UACR but not creatinine-based glomerular filtration rate is associated with the combination of markers of CSVD.
meta-analysis	CED446004	"Safety and Efficacy of Thrombolysis in Cervical Artery Dissection-Related Ischemic Stroke: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Safety and Efficacy of Thrombolysis in Cervical Artery Dissection-Related Ischemic Stroke: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Although thrombolysis is considered to be the first-line treatment for ischemic stroke, there remains an ongoing controversy on the safety and efficacy of thrombolysis in cervical artery dissection (CAD). The aim of this meta-analysis was to assess observational data related to the safety and efficacy of thrombolysis in CAD-related ischemic stroke. Methods: We performed a systematic search of the efficacy of thrombolysis treatment in CAD-related ischemic stroke with appropriate observational studies identified for the study. The meta-analysis models in Comprehensive Meta-Analysis V2 software were applied to calculate the merged rates of favorable outcome (modified Rankin Scale, mRS 0-2), excellent outcome (mRS 0-1), intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), symptomatic ICH (SICH), mortality and recurrent stroke between thrombolysis and non-thrombolysis in CAD-related stroke. The difference of outcomes and adverse events between the 2 groups was compared by analyzing the pooled OR value and chi-square test using the software SPSS. Results: A total of 846 patients were identified from 10 studies (174 with thrombolysis; 672 with non-thrombolysis). The meta-analysis detected no significant statistical difference in the proportion of CAD-related stroke patients enjoying a favorable outcome at the 3 months' follow-up between the thrombolysis and non-thrombolysis groups (53.7 vs. 58.2%, OR 0.782, &"
meta-analysis	CED446081	Arterial Spin Labeling and Blood Oxygen Level-Dependent MRI Cerebrovascular Reactivity in Cerebrovascular Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Arterial Spin Labeling and Blood Oxygen Level-Dependent MRI Cerebrovascular Reactivity in Cerebrovascular Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) results of blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) and arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI studies performed in patients with cerebrovascular disease (steno-occlusive vascular disease or stroke) were systematically reviewed. Summary: Thirty-one articles were included. Twenty-three (74.2%) studies used BOLD MRI to evaluate the CVR, 4 (12.9%) studies used ASL MRI and 4 (12.9%) studies used both BOLD and ASL MRI. Thirteen studies (3 significant) found a lower BOLD CVR, 2 studies found a similar CVR and 3 studies found a higher CVR in the ipsilateral compared to the contralateral hemisphere. Nine (5 significant) out of 10 studies found a lower BOLD CVR in the ipsilateral hemispheres of patients compared to controls. Six studies (2 significant) found a lower ASL CVR in the ipsilateral compared to the contralateral hemispheres. Three out of 5 studies found a significant lower ASL CVR in the ipsilateral hemispheres of patients compared to controls. Key Messages: This review brings support for a reduced BOLD and ASL CVR in the ipsilateral hemisphere of patients with cerebrovascular disease. We suggest that future studies will be performed in a uniform way so reference values can be established and could be used to guide treatment decisions in patients with cerebrovascular disease.
meta-analysis	CED446251	Corticosteroids in the Management of Hyponatremia, Hypovolemia, and Vasospasm in Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: A Meta-Analysis Corticosteroids in the Management of Hyponatremia, Hypovolemia, and Vasospasm in Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: A Meta-Analysis Background: Cerebral vasospasm and sodium and fluid imbalances are common sequelae of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and cause of significant morbidity and mortality. Studies have shown the benefit of corticosteroids in the management of these sequelae. We have reviewed the literature and analyzed the available data for corticosteroid use after SAH. Methods: PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane electronic databases were searched without language restrictions, and 7 observational, controlled clinical studies of the effect of corticosteroids in the management of SAH patients were identified. Data on sodium and fluid balances, symptomatic vasospasm (SVS), and outcomes were pooled for meta-analyses using the Mantel-Haenszel random effects model. Results: Corticosteroids, specifically hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone, decreased natriuretic diuresis and incidence of hypovolemia. Corticosteroid administration is associated with lower incidence of SVS in the absence of nimodipine, but does not alter the neurological outcome. Conclusions: Supplementation of corticosteroids with mineralocorticoid activity, such as hydrocortisone or fludrocortisone, helps in maintaining sodium and volume homeostasis in SAH patients. Larger trials are warranted to confirm the effects of corticosteroids on SVS and patient outcomes.
systematic-review	CED447459	"Dispatcher Stroke Recognition Using a Stroke Screening Tool: A Systematic Review Dispatcher Stroke Recognition Using a Stroke Screening Tool: A Systematic Review Background: Emergency dispatchers represent the first point of contact for patients activating an acute stroke response. Accurate dispatcher stroke recognition is associated with faster emergency medical services response time; however, stroke is often unrecognized during initial emergency calls. Stroke screening tools such as the Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale have been shown to improve on-scene stroke recognition and thus have been proposed as a means to improve dispatcher accuracy. We conducted a systematic review of the accuracy of emergency dispatcher stroke recognition when employing stroke screening tools. Methods: We conducted a comprehensive search of Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL, and Cochrane databases to identify studies of dispatcher stroke recognition accuracy. Those that specifically reported dispatcher utilization of any validated stroke screening tools in isolation or in the context of a comprehensive screening algorithm such as the Medical Priority Dispatch System (MPDS) were potentially eligible. Studies that reported data sufficient for calculation of dispatcher sensitivity or positive predictive value (PPV) using a hospital-based stroke/transient ischemic attack diagnosis as the reference standard were included. Two independent reviewers determined study eligibility, assessed quality using the QUADAS 2 instrument, and abstracted data. Results: We identified 1,413 potential studies; 54 underwent full text review. Three retrospective and 4 prospective cohort studies enrolling a total of 16,382 patients met the inclusion criteria. Stroke screening tools included MPDS (n = 4), Face Arm Speech Time (n = 2), and a novel screening algorithm developed after analysis of emergency calls for stroke (n = 1). Regardless of the screening tool employed, dispatcher stroke recognition sensitivity was suboptimal (5 studies, range 41-83%) as was the PPV (7 studies, range 42-68%). Primary study limitations included application of variable reference standards and questions regarding exclusion of subjects. No studies directly compared stroke screening algorithms and no studies specifically examined stroke recognition among potential candidates for acute stroke therapies. Conclusion: Even when utilizing a stroke screening tool, the accuracy of stroke recognition by emergency dispatchers was suboptimal. More research is needed to identify the causes of poor dispatcher stroke recognition and should focus on potential candidates for time-dependent stroke treatment."
systematic-review	CED448406	Interdisciplinary Treatment of Intracranial Infectious Aneurysms Interdisciplinary Treatment of Intracranial Infectious Aneurysms Objective: Intracranial infectious aneurysms (IIAs) are a rare clinical entity without a definitive treatment guideline. In this study, we evaluate the treatment options of these lesions based on our own clinical experience and review the current knowledge of therapy as portrayed in the literature. Methods: We conducted a single-center retrospective analysis of all patients with an IIA and performed a systematic review of the literature using the MEDLINE database. We undertook a comprehensive literature search using the OVID gateway of the MEDLINE database (1950-October 2015) using the following keywords (in combination): ‘infectious', ‘mycotic', ‘cerebral aneurysm', ‘intracranial aneurysm'. 1,721 potentially relevant abstracts were identified and 63 studies were selected for full review. The studies were analysed regarding ruptured versus unruptured aneurysms, aneurysm localization and treatment, as well as clinical and radiological outcome. Results: Our institutional series consisted of 6 patients (median age 57 [32-76]) treated between 2011 and 2015. All patients presented with ruptured IIAs located on the middle cerebral artery (MCA, 5 patients) and anterior cerebral artery (ACA, 1 patient). Five patients were treated by clipping and resecting the aneurysm, 1 patient underwent coiling. All patients received antibiotic therapy and 1 patient died. We further identified 814 patients (median age 35.5 [0-81]) in 63 studies. Locations of the aneurysms were mentioned in 55 studies. The most frequent locations of the aneurysms were: MCA (63.5%), posterior cerebral artery (14%), ACA (9.0%) and others (13.5%). Treatment for IIAs was described in 62 studies: antibiotic treatment (56.1%), a combination of antibiotics and surgery (20.9%) or antibiotics and endovascular treatment (23.0%). Outcome was mentioned in 82.4% of the patients with a mortality rate of 16.8%. An evaluation of treatment outcome was limited due to the heterogeneity of patients in the published case series. Conclusion: Antibiotic therapy of patients with IIA is mandatory. However, due to the complexity of the disease and its accompanying comorbidities, a general treatment algorithm could not be defined. Analogous to non-mycotic aneurysms, further treatment decisions require an interdisciplinary approach involving neurosurgeons, interventionists and infectious disease specialists.
meta-analysis	CED451034	The Course of Activities in Daily Living: Who Is at Risk for Decline after First Ever Stroke? The Course of Activities in Daily Living: Who Is at Risk for Decline after First Ever Stroke? Background: Stroke is not only an acute disease, but for the majority of patients, it also becomes a chronic condition. There is a major concern about the long-term follow-up with respect to activities of daily living (ADL) in stroke survivors. Some patients seem to be at risk for decline after a first-ever stroke. The purpose of this study was to determine the course of ADL from 3 months after the first-ever stroke and onward and identify factors associated with decline in ADL. Methods: A systematic literature search of 3 electronic databases through June 2015 was conducted. Longitudinal studies evaluating changes in ADL from 3 months post stroke onward were included. Cohorts including recurrent strokes and transient ischemic attacks were excluded. Regarding the course of ADL, a meta-analysis was performed using random-effects model. A best evidence synthesis was performed to identify factors associated with decline in ADL. Results: Out of 10,473 publications, 28 unique studies were included. A small but significant improvement in ADL was found from 3 to 12 months post stroke (standardized mean difference (SMD) 0.17 (0.04-0.30)), which mainly seemed to occur between 3 and 6 months post stroke (SMD 0.15 (0.05-0.26)). From 1 to 3 years post stroke, no significant change was found. Five studies found a decline in ADL status over time in 12-40% of patients. Nine factors were associated with ADL decline. There is moderate evidence for being dependent in ADL and impaired motor function of the leg. Limited evidence was found associated with insurance status, living alone, age ≥80, inactive state and having impaired cognitive function, depression and fatigue with decline in ADL. Conclusion: Although on an average patients do not seem to decline in ADL for up to 3 years, there is considerable variation within the population. Some modifiable factors associated with decline in ADL were identified. However, more research is needed before patients at risk of deterioration in ADL can be identified.
meta-analysis	CED452978	A Current Estimation of the Early Risk of Stroke after Transient Ischemic Attack: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Recent Intervention Studies A Current Estimation of the Early Risk of Stroke after Transient Ischemic Attack: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Recent Intervention Studies Objective: Recent studies have demonstrated that there is a decrease in the risk of subsequent stroke after transient ischemic attack (TIA) when urgent care (UC) is administered. However, no meta-analysis has been developed with contemporaneous TIA studies. We perform a systematic review and a meta-analysis to establish the risk of early stroke recurrence (SR) considering data from studies that offered UC to TIA patients. Methods: We searched for studies, without language restriction, from January 2007 to January 2015 according to PRISMA guidelines. We included studies with TIA patients who underwent UC and reported the proportion of SR at 90 days. We excluded studies that were centered on less than 100 patients and cohorts including both stroke and TIA, if stroke risk after TIA was not described. For its relevance, we included the TIAregistry.org study published in 2016. We performed both fixed and random effects meta-analyses to determine SR and assess sources of heterogeneity. Results: From 4,103 identified citations, we selected 15 papers that included 14,889 patients. There was great variation in terms of the number of patients included in each study, ranging from 115 to 4,160. Seven studies were TIA clinic based. The mean age and the percentage of men were similar among studies, ranging from 62.4 to 73.1 years and 45.1-62%, respectively. The reported risk of stroke ranged from 0 to 1.46% 2 days after TIA (9 studies included), 0-2.55% 7 days after TIA (11 studies included), 1.91-2.85% 30 days after TIA (4 studies included), and 0.62-4.76% 90 days after TIA (all studies included). The pooled stroke risk was 3.42% (95% CI 3.14-3.74) at 90 days, 2.78% (95% CI 2.47-3.12) at 30 days, 2.06% (95% CI 1.83-2.33) at 7 days and 1.36% (95% CI 1.15-1.59) at 2 days. Although we did not find statistically significant heterogeneity in SR among studies, those with a higher proportion of patients with motor weakness had a significantly higher risk of SR. No statistically significant association was observed between TIA clinic management and SR. Conclusion: The pooled early SR is lower than in previous meta-analyses and homogeneous for all studies with an urgent assessment and management strategy regardless of vascular risk factors and clinical characteristics. Therefore, the best setting for TIA management can be individualized for each center.
review-article	CED453282	Recent Update on Carotid Endarterectomy versus Carotid Artery Stenting Recent Update on Carotid Endarterectomy versus Carotid Artery Stenting Carotid artery stenosis (CS) is a major cause of ischemic stroke. Treatment of CS consists of best medical treatment and carotid revascularization (CR), including carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid artery stenting (CAS). Both CR techniques have their own procedural risks. Therefore, selection of the appropriate treatment for patients with CS is relatively complicated. Many studies and guidelines have reported the efficacy of each treatment for both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. However, the results are still controversial, especially concerning the efficacy and safety of CEA and CAS. In this paper, we review and discuss the current evidence and compare results from studies of CEA and CAS, including major randomized trials, meta-analyses and ongoing trials. Moreover, based on the current data, we propose a new comprehensive decision-making for the management of CS.
meta-analysis	CED462986	How Should We Lower Blood Pressure after Cerebral Hemorrhage? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis How Should We Lower Blood Pressure after Cerebral Hemorrhage? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The optimal treatment of high blood pressure (BP) after acute intra-cerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is controversial. Summary: The aim of the study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of early intensive vs. conservative BP lowering treatment in patients with ICH. Randomized controlled trials with active and control groups receiving intensive and conservative BP lowering treatments were identified. The following outcomes were assessed: 3-month mortality and combined death or major disability, 24-h hematoma growth, early neurological deterioration, occurrence of hypotension, severe hypotension, and serious treatment-emergent adverse events. Five trials were included involving 4,350 participants, 2,162 and 2,188 for intensive and conservative treatment groups, respectively. The pooled risk ratio of 3-month death or major disability was 0.96 (0.91-1.01) and the weighted mean difference in absolute hematoma growth was -1.53 (95% CI -2.94 to -0.12) mL in the intensive compared to conservative BP-lowering. There were no differences across the treatments in the incidence rates of 3-month mortality, early neurological deterioration, hypotension, and treatment-related adverse effects other than renal events. Key Messages: The early intensive anti-hypertensive treatment was overall safe and reduced the hematoma expansion in patients presenting with acute-onset spontaneous ICH and high BP levels.
meta-analysis	CED476073	"Is Regular Screening for Intracranial Aneurysm Necessary in Patients with Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease? A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis Is Regular Screening for Intracranial Aneurysm Necessary in Patients with Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease? A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis Background: The prevalence of intracranial aneurysm in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is higher than that among the general population. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis on the prevalence and natural history of intracranial aneurysm among patients with ADPKD. Methods: Medline, Embase, Web of Science and Scopus, from inception to July 2016, were searched for studies reporting the occurrence of intracranial aneurysms among participants with ADPKD. Two authors independently assessed the eligibility of all retrieved studies and extracted data. Information on the prevalence of intracranial aneurysms and their natural history in participants with ADPKD was collected from all included studies. Results: Fifteen studies with 1,490 participants with ADPKD were pooled to study about the prevalence of intracranial aneurysm in participants with ADPKD, and the prevalence rate was found to be 10% (95% CI 7-13%). Studies from China, Japan and Europe (Germany, Poland) reported a higher prevalence of intracranial aneurysm. Having a family history of haemorrhagic stroke or intracranial aneurysm was a risk factor for aneurysm occurrence. Twenty-three percent (95% CI 15-31%) of the participants had multiple aneurysms. Most of the aneurysms were small (&lt;6 mm) and located in the anterior circulation. Five studies with 171 participants (83 with 106 aneurysms at baseline and 88 without) were analyzed to understand the natural history of aneurysms, with an incidence of aneurysm growth, new aneurysm and aneurysm rupture of 1.84% (followed up for 435 person-years), 0.57% (1,227 person-years) and 0.13% (792 person-years) respectively. Conclusions: Screening for intracranial aneurysm is recommended in patients with ADPKD when there is a family history of haemorrhagic stroke or intracranial aneurysm and when they are from China, Japan or Europe (Germany, Poland). Based on existing data, regular imaging follow-up is not supported. High-quality, prospective studies are needed in the future."
research-article	CEE347113	CT and Clinical Predictors of Fatigue at One Month after Stroke CT and Clinical Predictors of Fatigue at One Month after Stroke Background: Fatigue is a common and distressing consequence of stroke, and the aetiology of post-stroke fatigue (PSF) is poorly understood. It is unclear whether chronic brain changes [cerebral atrophy and white matter lesions (WML)], stroke lesion location or certain clinical features are related to its development. The aim of this study was to identify, in patients with acute stroke, whether features in different brain regions on routine CT imaging or routinely collected clinical features predicted PSF at 1 month. Methods: In total, 107 patients (62% male) with acute ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke were assessed for fatigue (Fatigue Assessment Scale), anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale) at 1 month. Admission brain CT was rated using a structured scoring system for (i) severity of atrophy and (ii) severity of WML in different regions of the brain, and (iii) site of acute and previous vascular lesions. Results: Cerebral atrophy of mild or greater severity was present in 84 patients (77.5%) and WML of mild or greater severity was present in 54 patients (50.5%) in at least one of the evaluated brain regions. There was no association between PSF and severity of atrophy or WML, or presence of acute or previous vascular lesions. We used the Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project (OCSP) classification to explore the possible influence of lesion location because a minority of the patients (37.4%) had visible acute lesions. Fatigue scores were higher in patients with clinically diagnosed posterior strokes (p = 0.046), in females (p = 0.05) and in those with higher depression and anxiety scores (&
research-article	CEE348552	Negative Fluid-Attenuated Inversion Recovery- Based Intravenous Thrombolysis Using Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator in Acute Stroke Patients with Unknown Onset Time Negative Fluid-Attenuated Inversion Recovery- Based Intravenous Thrombolysis Using Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator in Acute Stroke Patients with Unknown Onset Time Background: Approximately 25% of acute stroke patients were excluded from intravenous thrombolysis using recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (IV-tPA) because of unknown onset time. Recent studies have shown that patients with unknown onset time would be able to receive IV-tPA when showing no ischemia on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (negative FLAIR). The present study evaluated the safety and feasibility of IV-tPA in patients with unknown onset time and negative FLAIR compared to those with standard IV-tPA. Methods: Stroke patients with unknown onset time were prospectively enrolled. Only patients with an occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) and/or middle cerebral artery (M1 and M2) with a Diffusion-Weighted Imaging-Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score (DWI-ASPECTS) ≥5 were analyzed. IV-tPA was performed within 3 h from the ‘first found abnormal time' if the patient showed negative FLAIR. Standard IV-tPA patients were extracted from our registry as controls after having been matched by age and occluded artery to the negative FLAIR (N-F) group. Results: Twenty patients in the N-F group and 60 in the control group were included. National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores [median 18 (interquartile range 13-20) vs. 17 (12-20), p = 0.609] and DWI-ASPECTS [9 (7-9) vs. 8 (5-9), p = 0.213] were similar between the 2 groups. ICA occlusion was seen in 35%, M1 in 50%, and M2 in 15% in both groups. None of the N-F group and 1 (2%) of the control group experienced symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (p = 1.000). Recanalization within 1 h after IV-tPA was achieved in 6 (30%) patients in the N-F group and 24 (40%) in the control group (p = 0.595). Recanalization at 24 h after IV-tPA was seen in 13 (65%) patients in the N-F group and 43 (72%) in the control group (p = 0.584). At 7 days, 8 (40%) in the N-F group and 28 (47%) in the control group had a dramatic recovery (defined as a ≥10-point reduction in the total NIHSS score or a score of 0 or 1) (p = 0.796). At 3 months, a favorable outcome (modified Rankin scale score, 0-2) was seen in 47% in the N-F group and 33% in the control group (p = 0.365). Conclusion: IV-tPA in negative FLAIR patients with unknown onset time appears safe and feasible.
systematic-review	CEE362111	"Primary Multiple Simultaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhages between 1950 and 2013: Analysis of Data on Age, Sex and Outcome Primary Multiple Simultaneous Intracerebral Hemorrhages between 1950 and 2013: Analysis of Data on Age, Sex and Outcome Background: Primary multiple simultaneous intracerebral hemorrhages (MSICHs) are quite rare. Although occasional reports have been found, there have been no systematic reviews. The published case reports and case series contain overlapping data, leading to erroneous information about MSICHs. This is the first extensive review of accessible studies published in English on MSICHs. Our primary objective was to analyze the demographic data on age, sex, outcome and prognosis with regard to primary MSICHs. Summary: A PubMed search without language restriction for articles with results from human studies and registered between January 1950 and September 2013 yielded 677 articles. The following inclusion criteria were applied: (1) reported case(s) or case series on primary MSICHs; (2) text partly or fully in English, and (3) text contains identifiable data on age, sex and outcome of patients. A total of 24 articles met all the inclusion criteria. The reference lists of these 24 articles were inspected for additional relevant articles, which yielded another 20 articles. In all, 248 cases were identified; 143 cases were excluded for various reasons: 52 duplicate cases, 18 cases of multiple nonsimultaneous intracerebral hemorrhages, 25 cases of secondary MSICHs, and 48 cases with incomplete data on age, sex and outcome. The remaining 105 cases were analyzed. MSICHs were found to be more common in bilateral cases (53.33%): there were bilateral basal ganglia hemorrhages (33.33%), bilateral thalamic hemorrhages (18.10%), bilateral lobar hemorrhages (0.95%) and bilateral cerebellar hemorrhages (0.95%). Nonbilateral MSICHs were found in 46.67% of the cases. The hematomas were commonly distributed in the basal ganglia (45.83%), thalamus (30.56%) and cerebellum (10.19%). MSICHs were more frequently encountered in males (60.95%; average age: 59.13 ± 12.49 years). The average age of the female patients was higher (63.89 ± 13.11 years). Patients with primary MSICHs had a survival rate of 56.20%. There was a favorable outcome of primary MSICHs in 18.10% of all the cases, the highest proportion of which was in the nonbilateral MSICH group. The remaining 38.10% had unfavorable outcomes. Death occurred in 43.80% of all cases, the highest proportion being found in the bilateral basal ganglia hemorrhage group. Primary MSICHs share features with solitary intracerebral hemorrhage regarding age, sex, and the location and distribution of hematomas, but they have a poorer outcome (p &lt; 0.05). Key Messages: Primary MSICHs are rare and share features with solitary intracerebral hemorrhage regarding age and the location and distribution of hematomas. Patients have a poorer prognosis but higher favorable outcome rates in case of survival. This information adds to the awareness of clinicians that higher rates of favorable outcomes can be achieved for MSICHs."
systematic-review	CEE362921	Neurocognitive Functioning after Carotid Revascularization: A Systematic Review Neurocognitive Functioning after Carotid Revascularization: A Systematic Review Background: The objective of this study was to review the recent literature regarding the neurocognitive consequences of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid stenting (CAS). Methods and Results: A PubMed and Web of Science search was conducted using the key words ‘carotid' in combination with ‘cognitive', ‘cognition', ‘neurocognition', ‘neurocognitive', ‘neuropsychology', and ‘neuropsychological'. Bibliographies of relevant articles were cross-referenced. We included 37 studies published since 2007 of which 18 examined CEA, 12 CAS, and 7 compared CEA to CAS. There is a wide variability in the reported neurocognitive outcome following CEA and CAS. Nonetheless, none of the included studies unveiled significant differences between CEA and CAS on postoperative neurocognitive functioning. Postoperative changes observed for CEA and CAS separately seem limited to a small percentage (around 10-15%) of patients and can either present as an improvement or impairment. Key Messages: The available data seem to suggest that no obvious cognitive differences between CAS and CEA can be observed after intervention. Both improvement and deterioration in cognitive functioning can be observed following CAS or CEA. Methodological differences such as patient heterogeneity, implementation and type of control groups, type of psychometric tests used, statistical analyses, or timing of the assessments play an important role in explaining the sometimes divergent results of the included studies. Large-scale and methodologically solid studies comparing CEA and CAS on neurocognitive outcome remain warranted. Future studies should implement adequate control groups to correct for practice effects in the target groups.
systematic-review	CEE367588	Arachidonic Acid and Cerebral Ischemia Risk: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies Arachidonic Acid and Cerebral Ischemia Risk: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies Background: Arachidonic acid (ARA) is a precursor of various lipid mediators. ARA metabolites such as thromboxane A2 cause platelet aggregation and vasoconstriction, thus may lead to atherosclerotic disease. It is unclear whether dietary ARA influences the ARA-derived lipid mediator balance and the risk for atherosclerotic diseases, such as cerebral ischemia. Considering the function of ARA in atherosclerosis, it is reasonable to focus on the atherothrombotic type of cerebral ischemia risk. However, no systematic reviews or meta-analyses have been conducted to evaluate the effect of habitual ARA exposure on cerebral ischemia risk. We aimed to systematically evaluate observational studies available on the relationship between ARA exposure and the atherothrombotic type of cerebral ischemia risk in free-living populations. Summary: The PubMed database was searched for articles registered up to June 24, 2014. We designed a PubMed search formula as follows: key words for humans AND brain ischemia AND study designs AND ARA exposure. Thirty-three articles were reviewed against predefined criteria. There were 695 bibliographies assessed from the articles that included both ARA and cerebral ischemia descriptions. Finally, we identified 11 eligible articles and categorized them according to their reporting and methodological quality. We used the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology Statement (STROBE) checklist to score the reporting quality. The methodological quality was qualitatively assessed based on the following aspects: subject selection, ARA exposure assessment, outcome diagnosis, methods for controlling confounders, and statistical analysis. We did not conduct a meta-analysis due to the heterogeneity among the studies. All eligible studies measured blood ARA levels as an indicator of exposure. Our literature search did not identify any articles that evaluated dietary ARA intake and tissue ARA as assessments of exposure. Seven of the 11 eligible articles were considered to be of low quality. No articles reported a dose-dependent positive association between an increased cerebral ischemia risk and ARA exposure. However, most studies did not assess the risk in each subtype of cerebral ischemia, thus various etiological types of cerebral ischemia risk were involved in their results. Key Messages: We did not find a positive association between ARA exposure and cerebral ischemia risk. Eligible studies reported inconsistent findings: cerebral ischemia risk did not change or significantly decreased. We could not draw any conclusions due to the limited number of eligible high-quality studies. Further evidence from well-designed observational studies is required. Simultaneously, in order to develop effective preventive measures against cerebral ischemia, it is imperative to establish standardized definitions, nomenclatures, classifications, and diagnostic procedures.
research-article	CEE444765	International Survey on the Management of Wake-Up Stroke International Survey on the Management of Wake-Up Stroke Background: Patients who wake up having experienced a stroke while asleep represent around 20% of acute stroke admissions. According to international guidelines for the management of acute stroke, patients presenting with wake-up stroke are not currently eligible to receive revascularization treatments. In this study, we aimed to assess the opinions of stroke experts about the management of patients with wake-up stroke by using an international multicenter electronic survey. Method: This study consisted of 8 questions on wake-up stroke treatment. Results: Two hundred invitations to participate in the survey were sent by e-mail. Fifty-nine participants started the survey, 4 dropped out before completing it, and 55 completed the full questionnaire. We had 55 participants from 22 countries. Conclusions: In this study, most stroke experts recommended a recanalization treatment for wake-up stroke. However, there was considerable disagreement among experts regarding the best brain imaging method and the best recanalization treatment. The results of ongoing randomized trials on wake-up stroke are urgently needed.
review-article	CGR290673	Genomics and Evolution – A Personal Appraisal Genomics and Evolution – A Personal Appraisal After a brief introduction about present approaches in evolutionary thinking and systems biology, I present a review about the most recent research of our group, with special reference to the genomics of Amerindians. This information was integrated with the present knowledge and concepts in this area. Human microevolutionary approaches are faced with special challenges, and proper interpretation demands the consideration of our unique specificity: culture.
review-article	CGR291485	Genetic Diversity of Neotropical Primates: Phylogeny, Population Genetics, and Animal Models for Infectious Diseases Genetic Diversity of Neotropical Primates: Phylogeny, Population Genetics, and Animal Models for Infectious Diseases The classification of neotropical primates has been controversial, and different arrangements have been proposed based on disparate taxonomic criteria and on the traits selected for elucidating phylogenetic reconstructions, like morphologic characters, nuclear DNA and mitochondrial DNA. Population studies of some neotropical primates have been useful for assessing their extant genetic variability and for understanding their social structure and dynamics. Finally, neotropical primates have become valuable models for some human infectious deseases, especially for HIV studies related to viral resistance. In this review, we comment on these aspects that make neotropical primates a group of highly valuable species for basic and applied research.
review-article	CGR291489	Flow Cytometry for Gene Expression Studies in Mammalian Spermatogenesis Flow Cytometry for Gene Expression Studies in Mammalian Spermatogenesis Mammalian spermatogenesis is nowadays still poorly understood at the molecular level, mainly due to the heterogeneous nature of testes, which contain a high number of different cell types, and to the lack of spermatogenic cell culture systems for in vitro studies. As a consequence, the development and/or application of methodological approaches aiming at the enrichment or purification of specific testicular cell types are of great interest and have been addressed by scientists for at least 4 decades. Among the many applications that flow cytometry (FC) has gained since its invention, analysis and sorting of spermatogenic cell populations represent a promising strategy to efficiently overcome testis heterogeneity drawback. Surprisingly, FC has been only rarely used as a preparative method for downstream gene expression studies in specific spermatogenic stages. This work aims to provide an overview of FC for spermatogenic studies including preparation of testicular single cell suspensions, dyes for DNA staining, and our own experience with rodent testis material.
review-article	CGR293923	New Ventures in the Genotoxic and Cytotoxic Effects of Macrocyclic Lactones, Abamectin and Ivermectin New Ventures in the Genotoxic and Cytotoxic Effects of Macrocyclic Lactones, Abamectin and Ivermectin Abamectin and Ivermectin are 2 closely related members of the Avermectin family of 16-membered macrocyclic lactones derived from the actinomycete Streptomyces avermectinius which exhibit extraordinary anthelmintic activity. They are used worldwide in veterinary and human medicine as well as in agriculture. In the present review we summarized the results published so far for estimating the genotoxicity and cytotoxicity exerted by both compounds in several cellular systems. Although both compounds do not induce in vitro and in vivo gene mutations in either bacterial or mammalian cells, there is no concrete evidence of a clear clastogenic effect exerted both in vitro and in vivo in mammalian cells. However, reports indicating that both anthelmintic agents are able to induce single DNA-strand breaks in vitro and inhibit cell growth either in vitro or in in vivo bioassays, are scarce. Taking into account the similarity of the genotoxicity and cytotoxicity exerted by both antibiotics, and that only Abamectin has been classified so far as a class II toxicity pesticide by the EPA, the necessity of reconsideration for a further hazard evaluation of Ivermectin by an international regulatory agency(ies) is strongly recommended.
review-article	CGR295809	Co-Evolution of Genomic Structure and Selective Forces Underlying Sexual Development and Reproduction Co-Evolution of Genomic Structure and Selective Forces Underlying Sexual Development and Reproduction Genomic structure affects the expression and evolution of phenotypes via its effect on genomic function. One example is the presence of sex chromosomes and the development of the sexual phenotype. Multiple forces account for the evolution of genomic structure and function, some acting synergistically and some in an antagonistic manner, in a co-evolutionary process between genomic architecture and environmental effects at different time scales. Here I review the evolution of sex chromosomes and how they affect sex determination, sex ratios, sexual selection, and sexual conflict, at the same time that these phenomena influence the evolution of genome organization. Because of this reciprocal interaction, the need to correctly identify sex chromosome systems in order to understand the causes and consequences of their evolution is emphasized. Importantly, it is argued that the existence of taxa lacking sex chromosomes poses a challenge to current evolutionary models and a unique opportunity to test them empirically using reptiles as a model system.
review-article	CGR297715	"From Reptilian Phylogenomics to Reptilian Genomes: Analyses of c-Jun and DJ-1 Proto-Oncogenes From Reptilian Phylogenomics to Reptilian Genomes: Analyses of c-Jun and DJ-1 Proto-Oncogenes Genome projects have revolutionized our understanding of both molecular biology and evolution, but there has been a limited collection of genomic data from reptiles. This is surprising given the pivotal position of reptiles in vertebrate phylogeny and the potential utility of information from reptiles for understanding a number of biological phenomena, such as sex determination. Although there are many potential uses for genomic data, one important and useful approach is phylogenomics. Here we report cDNA sequences for the c-Jun(JUN) and DJ-1(PARK7) proto-oncogenes from 3 reptiles (the American alligator, Nile crocodile, and Florida red-belly turtle), show that both genes are expressed in the alligator, and integrate them into analyses of their homologs from other organisms. With these taxa it was possible to conduct analyses that include all major vertebrate lineages. Analyses of c-Jun revealed an unexpected but well-supported frog-turtle clade while analyses of DJ-1 revealed a topology largely congruent with expectation based upon other data. The conflict between the c-Jun topology and expectation appears to reflect the overlap between c-Jun and a CpG island in most taxa, including crocodilians. This CpG island is absent in the frog and turtle, and convergence in base composition appears to be at least partially responsible for the signal uniting these taxa. Noise reduction approaches can eliminate the unexpected frog-turtle clade, demonstrating that multiple signals are present in the c-Jun alignment. We used phylogenetic methods to visualize these signals; we suggest that examining both historical and non-historical signals will prove important for phylogenomic analyses."
review-article	CGR297716	Diploid-Triploid Mosaicism and Tissue Ploidy Diversity within Platemys platycephala from Suriname Diploid-Triploid Mosaicism and Tissue Ploidy Diversity within Platemys platycephala from Suriname The twist-necked turtle, Platemys platycephala, is 1 of only 2 known species to possess sexual reproduction and diploid-triploid mosaicism. Previous studies have shown that mosaics occur in Suriname and French Guiana but only diploids are known from Bolivia and Brazil. In this paper, the frequency of ploidy mosaicism was studied in a large sample of P. platycephala from Suriname to more fully explore the diversity of ploidy levels within and among individuals. Flow-cytometric analysis of blood revealed a wide diversity of conditions including diploids, diploid-triploid mosaics, triploids, and triploid-tetraploid mosaics. The largest frequency class was 100% diploid, and the second largest was 100% triploid. However, mosaic individuals were observed from the entire spectrum of mixtures ranging from nearly all-diploid to nearly all-triploid and 2 individuals were triploid-tetraploid mosaics. It appears likely that diploids, triploids and mosaics do not represent distinct biotypes, but simply different conditions within a spectrum of possible ploidy mixtures. Studies of multiple tissues from 5 individuals showed blood alone is a good indicator of ploidy, but subtle differences were found among tissues for some individuals, and some individuals that were all-diploid or all-triploid in blood were found to be mosaic in other tissues. Triploidy was statistically associated with males, and we hypothesize that genome size plays a role in sex determination in this species.
review-article	CGR300507	Sex Chromosome Evolution in Lizards: Independent Origins and Rapid Transitions Sex Chromosome Evolution in Lizards: Independent Origins and Rapid Transitions Reptiles epitomize the variability of reproductive and sex determining modes and mechanisms among amniotes. These modes include gonochorism (separate sexes) and parthenogenesis, oviparity, viviparity, and ovoviviparity, genotypic sex determination (GSD) with male (XX/XY) and female (ZZ/ZW) heterogamety and temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD). Lizards (order Squamata, suborder Sauria) are particularly fascinating because the distribution of sex-determining mechanisms shows no clear phylogenetic segregation. This implies that there have been multiple transitions between TSD and GSD, and between XY and ZW sex chromosome systems. Approximately 1,000 species of lizards have been karyotyped and among those, fewer than 200 species have sex chromosomes, yet they display remarkable diversity in morphology and degree of degeneration. The high diversity of sex chromosomes as well as the presence of species with TSD, imply multiple and independent origins of sex chromosomes, and suggest that the mechanisms of sex determination are extremely labile in lizards. In this paper, we review the current state of knowledge of sex chromosomes in lizards and the distribution of sex determining mechanisms and sex chromosome forms within and among families. We establish for the first time an association between the occurrence of female heterogamety and TSD within lizard families, and propose mechanisms by which female heterogamety and TSD may have co-evolved. We suggest that lizard sex determination may be much more the result of an interplay between sex chromosomes and temperature than previously thought, such that the sex determination mode is influenced by the nature of heterogamety as well as temperature sensitivity and the stage of sex chromosome degeneration.
review-article	CGR300567	Mitochondrial Genome Instability in Cancer Mitochondrial Genome Instability in Cancer The relevant role of mitochondrial mutations in cancer is the most frequent conclusion found in most early publications on the subject. However, it is now clear that this assumption was in many cases based on circumstantial or even flawed evidence. Presently, we know that normal mitochondria structure and functions depend on the concerted interaction between mitochondrial (mt)-genes and different groups of nuclear genes. Thus, somatic mutations of mt- or nuclear genes controlling mitochondrial physiology would influence the cancer transformation process through a disruption of nuclear↔mitochondrial gene interactions. In this regard, somatic mt-mutations influencing carcinogenesis have been detected in preneoplastic lesions. Furthermore, an abnormal respiration process with the subsequent increase in reactive oxygen species production seems to be one of the basic mechanisms favoring oncogenesis. Many mt-genes exhibit inherited polymorphisms associated with their mitochondrial phylogenetic history. In this report we shall summarize data showing that some of these ethnic mt- mutations may increase or alternatively decrease the susceptibility to various forms of malignancy. The interference of mt-mutations with anticancer therapies and the use of body fluids for the analysis of mt-mutations to obtain tumor samples avoiding invasive techniques are two promising fields to be further investigated.
review-article	CGR303325	Cytogenetic and Genetic Trends in the Evolution of Unisexual Lizards Cytogenetic and Genetic Trends in the Evolution of Unisexual Lizards Extensive karyological, allozyme and molecular genetic analyses of many parthenogenetic lizards confirm the origin of these species by hybridization. The concept of reticulate (hybridogeneous) speciation based on 3 interrelated phenomena such as hybridization-unisexuality-polyploidy has been elaborated. Cytogenetic and genetic variability and some regular trends in the evolution of hybrid unisexual species have been demonstrated. Cytogenetic investigations of unisexual-bisexual complex lizards of the genus Darevskia (formerly Lacerta) in the family Lacertidae suggest that some characteristics of their karyotypes play a role in the evolution of parthenogenesis. The maternal species with advanced w sex microchromosomes (Zw type) appeared to be successful in hybridization and produced the diploid unisexual species. The polyploid back-cross hybrids between said diploids and bisexual parent species exhibited many chromosome aberrations which were associated with their complete or partial sterility. In addition, the karyotype and the structure of mitotic and meiotic lampbrush chromosomes in 2 species and in some back-cross hybrids of this unisexual-bisexual complex have been examined here using molecular cytogenetic techniques. The genomic and functional disturbances, genomic interactions between homeologous chromosomes, and possibly both genomic imprinting and the presence of mobile elements are some cytogenetic mechanisms that increase genetic diversity in hybrid parthenogenetic species.
review-article	CGR303328	"DNA Double Strand Breaks and Chromosomal Aberrations DNA Double Strand Breaks and Chromosomal Aberrations DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) are ultimate lesions for the formation of chromosomal aberrations (CAs). The formation of CAs is dependent on many factors; some of these are discussed in this review. FISH methodologies have uncovered CA types which cannot be seen with the classical staining methods, and thereby widened our understanding of the origin of CAs. The mobility of DSBs in interphase nuclei is limited. This makes it especially difficult to understand the origin of complex CAs involving many chromosomes. Even using high-resolution mBAND FISH to analyze CAs, the ratio of inter-/intrachromosomal CAs is higher than 1. From this it was postulated that only a subset of DSBs, namely, complex or clustered DSBs give rise mainly to interchromosomal CAs. The finding that endonucleases induce CAs does not fit the idea of complex DSBs being responsible for CA. Probably it is the proximity and not the complexity of DSBs which leads to CA."
research-article	CGR348744	Relating Centromeric Topography in Fixed Human Chromosomes to α-Satellite DNA and CENP-B Distribution Relating Centromeric Topography in Fixed Human Chromosomes to α-Satellite DNA and CENP-B Distribution Despite extensive analyses on the centromere and its associated proteins, detailed studies of centromeric DNA structure have provided limited information about its topography in condensed chromatin. We have developed a method with correlative fluorescence light microscopy and atomic force microscopy that investigates the physical and structural organization of α-satellite DNA sequences in the context of its associated protein, CENP-B, on human metaphase chromosome topography. Comparison of centromeric DNA and protein distribution patterns in fixed homologous chromosomes indicates that CENP-B and α-satellite DNA are distributed distinctly from one another and relative to observed centromeric ridge topography. Our approach facilitates correlated studies of multiple chromatin components comprising higher-order structures of human metaphase chromosomes.
research-article	CGR348815	Experimental Designs for Array Comparative Genomic Hybridization Technology Experimental Designs for Array Comparative Genomic Hybridization Technology Array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) technology is commonly used to estimate genome-wide copy-number variation and to evaluate associations between copy number and disease. Although aCGH technology is well developed and there are numerous algorithms available for estimating copy number, little attention has been paid to the important issue of the statistical experimental design. Herein, we review classical statistical experimental designs and discuss their relevance to aCGH technology as well as their importance for downstream statistical analyses. Furthermore, we provide experimental design guidance for various study objectives.
research-article	CGR350004	ASURA (PHB2) Interacts with Scc1 through Chromatin ASURA (PHB2) Interacts with Scc1 through Chromatin Sister chromatid cohesion mediated by the cohesin complex is essential for faithful chromosome segregation. Previously we reported that PHB2 (prohibitin2/ASURA), a multifunctional protein, has a role in sister chromatid cohesion. Nevertheless, how ASURA is involved in sister chromatid cohesion still remains unclear. The present co-immunoprecipitation analysis reveals that ASURA interacts with cohesin subunit Scc1 in vivo. We show that ASURA associates with chromatin in a similar manner as Scc1 throughout the cell cycle. Furthermore, our observation using the Fucci (fluorescent ubiquitination-based cell cycle indicator) system indicates that ASURA is important for cohesin maintenance at early mitosis. We have also identified that the conserved PHB domain is responsible for chromatin targeting of ASURA. Our results suggest that the regulation of sister chromatid cohesion is mediated by ASURA binding to chromatin, where ASURA might be involved in cohesin protection through ASURA-Scc1 interactions.
systematic-review	CGR369045	Germline DNA Variations in Breast Cancer Predisposition and Prognosis: A Systematic Review of the Literature Germline DNA Variations in Breast Cancer Predisposition and Prognosis: A Systematic Review of the Literature Breast cancer is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of death in women worldwide. The disease is caused by a combination of genetic, environmental, lifestyle, and reproductive risk factors. Linkage and family-based studies have identified many pathological germline mutations, which account for around 20% of the genetic risk of familial breast cancer. In recent years, single nucleotide polymorphism-based genetic association studies, especially genome-wide association studies (GWASs), have been very successful in uncovering low-penetrance common variants associated with breast cancer risk. These common variants alone may explain up to an additional 30% of the familial risk of breast cancer. With the advent of available genetic resources and growing collaborations among researchers across the globe, the much needed large sample size to capture variants with small effect sizes and low population frequencies is being addressed, and hence many more common variants are expected to be discovered in the coming days. Here, major GWASs conducted for breast cancer predisposition and prognosis until 2013 are summarized. Few studies investigating other forms of genetic variations contributing to breast cancer predisposition and disease outcomes are also discussed. Finally, the potential utility of the GWAS-identified variants in disease risk models and some future perspectives are presented.
research-article	CGR373909	"Chromosomal Mapping of Repetitive DNAs in Gobionellus oceanicus and G. stomatus (Gobiidae; Perciformes): A Shared XX/XY System and an Unusual Distribution of 5S rDNA Sites on the Y Chromosome Chromosomal Mapping of Repetitive DNAs in Gobionellus oceanicus and G. stomatus (Gobiidae; Perciformes): A Shared XX/XY System and an Unusual Distribution of 5S rDNA Sites on the Y Chromosome With nearly 2,000 species, Gobiidae is the most specious family of the vertebrates. This high level of speciation is accompanied by conspicuous karyotypic modifications, where the role of repetitive sequences remains largely unknown. This study analyzed the karyotype of 2 species of the genus Gobionellus and mapped 18S and 5S ribosomal RNA genes and (CA)15 microsatellite sequences onto their chromosomes. G. oceanicus (2n = 56; &"
case-report	CGR442039	"Comprehensive Molecular Analyses in a Case of Masked Philadelphia Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Comprehensive Molecular Analyses in a Case of Masked Philadelphia Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Here, we report the case of an 80-year-old woman with masked Philadelphia chronic myeloid leukemia (Ph CML). At diagnosis, qualitative PCR demonstrated the presence of a typical e14a2 configuration, and chromosome analysis showed an apparently normal female karyotype. However, FISH with BCR-ABL1 dual fusion probes gave a positive signal in 152/200 analyzed nuclei, with the fusion signal detected on the long arm of a cytogenetically normal chromosome 9. Using locus-specific probes for chromosome 9 and 22 telomeres, a third chromosome involvement was excluded. Furthermore, microarray analysis from the same specimens showed a normal result. Due to a high Charlson Comorbidity Index, the patient was treated with a reduced dose of imatinib, achieving a rapid hematological response after 1 month. However, after 6 months of imatinib therapy, she had to be considered as warning (Ph+ 26.5%, BCR-ABL1 &gt;1%) according to the European LeukemiaNet 2013 recommendations. In conclusion, we confirmed the importance of a combination of cytogenetic and molecular techniques for the diagnosis and therapy monitoring of masked Ph CML, but, different from what has been reported in the literature so far, we cannot completely exclude the fact that the unusual cytogenetic pattern of this patient may have negatively influenced her response to tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy."
case-report	CGR442068	"Cryptic 13q34 and 4q35.2 Deletions in an Italian Family Cryptic 13q34 and 4q35.2 Deletions in an Italian Family Variations of DNA sequences in the human genome range from large, microscopically visible chromosome anomalies to single nucleotide changes. Submicroscopic genomic copy number variations, i.e. chromosomal imbalances which are undetectable by conventional cytogenetic analysis, play an intriguing clinical role. In this study, we describe the clinical consequences of the concurrent presence of an interstitial deletion in 13q34 and a terminal deletion in 4q35.2 in an Italian family. The index patient, a 19-year-old male, as well as his 12-year-old sister are carriers of both deletions, one of maternal and the other of paternal origin. The phenotype includes language delay, multiorgan involvement and bleeding diathesis with mild deficiency of factors X and VII. In the sister, the concomitant presence of Noonan syndrome may partly explain the clinical symptoms. The deleted region on chromosome 13 involves several genes (ATP11A, MCF2L, F7, F10, PROZ, PCID2, CUL4A, and LAMP1); some of these seem to play a role in the proband's phenotype. The terminal deletion in 4q35.2 contains other OMIM genes (FRG1, FRG2 and DBET); moreover, the 4q region is reported as a susceptibility locus for Crohn's disease, diagnosed in the proband's father. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a family with these 2 submicroscopic copy number changes. We tried to relate the clinical phenotype of the proband and his family to the molecular function of the involved genes."
case-report	CGR442265	Characterization of a de novo Supernumerary Neocentric Ring Chromosome Derived from Chromosome 7 Characterization of a de novo Supernumerary Neocentric Ring Chromosome Derived from Chromosome 7 Supernumerary ring chromosomes (SRC) are usually derived from regions adjacent to the centromere. Their identification may be challenging, particularly in case of low mosaicism. Here, we report on a patient who was referred for major in utero growth retardation, severe developmental delay, facial dysmorphism, cleft palate, and hypospadias. The karyotype showed a small SRC in mosaic. The combination of FISH, M-FISH and array-CGH was necessary for a complete characterization of this SRC. M-FISH revealed that the SRC originated from chromosome 7. Array-CGH performed with a 400K oligonucleotide array showed a gain in region 7q22.1q31.1 present in low mosaic. This result was confirmed by FISH using BAC probes specific for chromosome 7. The SRC was a neocentric ring derived from 7q22.1q31.1 and was found in only 8% of the cells. This is the first patient carrying a mosaic neocentric SRC derived from the long arm of chromosome 7. Our study emphasizes the need to combine different techniques and to use adapted bioinformatic tools for low-mosaicism marker identification. It also contributes to the delineation of the partial trisomy 7q phenotype.
case-report	CGR442308	"Array-Comparative Genomic Hybridization Analysis in Fetuses with Major Congenital Malformations Reveals that 24% of Cases Have Pathogenic Deletions/Duplications Array-Comparative Genomic Hybridization Analysis in Fetuses with Major Congenital Malformations Reveals that 24% of Cases Have Pathogenic Deletions/Duplications Karyotyping and aCGH are routinely used to identify genetic determinants of major congenital malformations (MCMs) in fetal deaths or terminations of pregnancy after prenatal diagnosis. Pathogenic rearrangements are found with a variable rate of 9-39% for aCGH. We collected 33 fetuses, 9 with a single MCM and 24 with MCMs involving 2-4 organ systems. aCGH revealed copy number variants in 14 out of 33 cases (42%). Eight were classified as pathogenic which account for a detection rate of 24% (8/33) considering fetuses with 1 or more MCMs and 33% (8/24) taking into account fetuses with multiple malformations only. Three of the pathogenic variants were known microdeletion syndromes (22q11.21 deletion, central chromosome 22q11.21 deletion, and TAR syndrome) and 5 were large rearrangements, adding up to &gt;11 Mb per subject and comprising strong phenotype-related genes. One of those was a de novo complex rearrangement, and the remaining 4 duplications and 2 deletions were 130-900 kb in size, containing 1-7 genes, and were classified as variants of unknown clinical significance. Our study confirms aCGH as a powerful technique to ascertain the genetic etiology of fetal major congenital malformations."
research-article	CGR444602	Distribution of Telomeric Sequences (TTAGGG)n in Rearranged Chromosomes of Phyllotine Rodents (Cricetidae, Sigmodontinae) Distribution of Telomeric Sequences (TTAGGG)n in Rearranged Chromosomes of Phyllotine Rodents (Cricetidae, Sigmodontinae) Phyllotines are sigmodontine rodents endemic to South America with broad genetic variability, Robertsonian polymorphisms being the most frequent. Moreover, this taxon includes a species with multiple sex chromosomes, which is infrequent in mammals. However, molecular cytogenetic techniques have never been applied to phyllotines to elucidate their karyotypic evolution. We studied the chromosomes of 4 phyllotine species using FISH with a pantelomeric probe (TTAGGG)n. Graomys griseoflavus, Eligmodontia puerulus, and E. morgani are polymorphic for Robertsonian translocations, whereas Salinomys delicatus possesses XX/ XY1Y2 sex chromosomes. Telomeric signals were detected at both ends of all chromosomes of the studied species. In S. delicatus interstitial telomeric sequences (ITS) were observed in the 3 major chromosome pairs, which are equidistant from one of the telomeres in these chromosomes. These results suggest that ITS are important in the reshuffling of the highly derived karyotype of S. delicatus. Considering the phylogeny of phyllotines, the Robertsonian rearrangements of G. griseoflavus, E. puerulus, and E. morgani possibly represent chromosome fusions which have occurred independently. The pericentromeric regions of the biarmed chromosomes of these species do not contain telomeric sequences characteristic for strict fusions of recent origin, suggesting a common pattern of telomeric repeat loss during chromosomal evolution of these rodents.
case-report	CGR448447	"Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia with t(12;17)(p13;q21)/TAF15-ZNF384 and Other Chromosome Abnormalities Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia with t(12;17)(p13;q21)/TAF15-ZNF384 and Other Chromosome Abnormalities The t(12;17)(p13;q11∼21) translocation is a very rare but recurrent cytogenetic aberration observed predominantly in early pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with CD19+CD10-CD33+ phenotype. This translocation was shown to form a fusion gene between TAF15 at 17q12 and ZNF384 at 12p13. On the other hand, der(1;18)(q10;q10) has been detected as a rare unbalanced whole-arm translocation leading to trisomy 1q in myeloid malignancies. We describe here the first case of mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) with a t(12;17)(p13;q21)/TAF15-ZNF384, which also had der(1;18)(q10;q10) as an additional abnormality. A 74-year-old woman was diagnosed with MPAL, B/myeloid, because bone marrow blasts were positive for myeloperoxidase, CD19, and CD22. Chromosome analysis showed 46,XX, +1,der(1;18)(q10;q10),t(2;16)(q13;q13),t(12;17)(p13;q21). Expression of the TAF15-ZNF384 fusion transcript was confirmed: TAF15 exon 6 was fused in-frame to ZNF384 exon 3. This type of fusion gene has been reported in 1 acute myeloid leukemia case and 3 ALL cases. Thus, at present, it is difficult to find a specific association between the structure of the TAF15-ZNF384 fusion gene and the leukemia phenotype. The TAF15-ZNF384 fusion may occur in early common progenitor cells that could differentiate into both the myeloid and lymphoid lineages. Furthermore, der(1;18)(q10;q10) might play some role in the appearance of an additional myeloid phenotype."
case-report	CGR448827	A 92,XXXY Miscarriage Consecutive to a Digynic Triploid Pregnancy A 92,XXXY Miscarriage Consecutive to a Digynic Triploid Pregnancy The patient was referred for prenatal diagnosis due to the sonographic finding of a polymalformed male fetus, and an amniocentesis was performed before termination of pregnancy. The pathological study of the placenta did not show morphological alterations. In her next pregnancy, sonographic examination disclosed a missed abortion with a visible embryo, and a chorionic villi sample was obtained for cytogenetic analysis before evacuation. Macroscopic examination of the villi sample did not reveal molar vesicular appearance. QF-PCR and cytogenetic analyses were performed on amniotic fluid (first pregnancy) and chorionic villi samples (second pregnancy). A 69,XXY and 92,XXXY karyotype was found, respectively. QF-PCR results disclosed 2 maternal and 1 paternal alleles in the first pregnancy (digynic triploidy), and double maternal and double paternal contribution to the tetraploid pregnancy. Among the few reported cases of 92,XXXY tetraploidy, those associated with partial moles show a PPPM genotype (3 paternal and 1 maternal alleles), and the only case with a PPMM genotype was found in a spontaneously aborted fetus similar to our case. We are not aware of other cases with combination of a digynic triploid pregnancy and a tetraploid pregnancy with a PPMM contribution. Our case adds evidence to the influence of the balance between paternal and maternal genomic doses on the phenotype.
review-article	CGR452822	Mammalian Meiotic Recombination: A Toolbox for Genome Evolution Mammalian Meiotic Recombination: A Toolbox for Genome Evolution Meiotic recombination is a process that increases genetic diversity and is fundamental for sexual reproduction. Determining by which mechanisms genetic variation is generated and maintained across different phylogenetic groups provides the basis for our understanding of biodiversity and evolution. In this review, we go through different aspects of this essential phenomenon, paying special attention to mammals. We provide a comprehensive view on the organization of meiotic chromosomes and the mechanisms involved in the formation and genomic distribution of recombination hotspots, focusing on the factors influencing the formation and repair of the massive amount of self-induced DNA breaks in early stages of meiosis. At the same time, we discuss the genetic and mechanistic factors that influence recombination landscapes in mammals, as reflected by several layers of regulation. These factors include the selective forces that affect the DNA sequence itself, which can be modulated by genome reshuffling and the evolutionary history of each taxon, and the forces that control how the DNA is packaged into chromosomes during meiosis.
review-article	CGR453520	Divergence between C. melo and African Cucumis Species Identified by Chromosome Painting and rDNA Distribution Pattern Divergence between C. melo and African Cucumis Species Identified by Chromosome Painting and rDNA Distribution Pattern The 5S and 45S rDNA sites are useful chromosome landmarks and can provide valuable information about karyotype evolution and species interrelationships. In this study, we employed fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to determine the number and chromosomal location of 5S and 45S rDNA loci in 8 diploid Cucumis species. Two oligonucleotide painting probes specific for the rDNA-bearing chromosomes in C. melo were hybridized to other Cucumis species in order to investigate the homeologies among the rDNA-carrying chromosomes in Cucumis species. The analyzed diploid species showed 3 types of rDNA distribution patterns, which provided clear cytogenetic evidence on the divergence between C. melo and wild diploid African Cucumis species. The present results not only show species interrelationships in the genus Cucumis, but the rDNA FISH patterns can also be used as cytological markers for the discrimination of closely related species. The data will be helpful for breeders to choose the most suitable species from various wild species for improvement of cultivated melon.
review-article	CGR454655	The Genomic Era of Clinical Oncology: Integrated Genomic Analysis for Precision Cancer Care The Genomic Era of Clinical Oncology: Integrated Genomic Analysis for Precision Cancer Care Genomic alterations are important biological markers for cancer diagnosis and prognosis, disease classification, risk stratification, and treatment selection. Chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) and next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies are superb new tools for evaluating cancer genomes. These state-of-the-art technologies offer high-throughput, highly accurate, targeted and whole-genome evaluation of genomic alterations in tumor tissues. The application of CMA and NGS technologies in cancer research has generated a wealth of useful information about the landscape of genomic alterations in cancer and their implications in cancer care. As the knowledge base in cancer genomics and genome biology grows, the focus of research is now shifting toward the clinical applications of these technologies to improve patient care. Although not yet standard of care in cancer, there is an increasing interest among the cancer genomics communities in applying these new technologies to cancer diagnosis in the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-certified laboratories. Many clinical laboratories have already started adopting these technologies for cancer genomic analysis. We anticipate that CMA and NGS will soon become the major diagnostic means for cancer genomic analysis to meet the increasing demands of precision cancer care.
research-article	CGR493906	Inter-Cell and Inter-Chromosome Variability of 5-Hydroxymethylcytosine Patterns in Noncultured Human Embryonic and Extraembryonic Cells Inter-Cell and Inter-Chromosome Variability of 5-Hydroxymethylcytosine Patterns in Noncultured Human Embryonic and Extraembryonic Cells 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) is an oxidative derivative of 5-methylcytosine (5mC). Recent studies have revealed a sharp difference in the levels of 5hmC in 2 opposite DNA strands of a given chromosome and a chromosome-wide cell-to-cell variability in mammalian cells. This asymmetric 5hmC distribution was found in cultured cells, which may not fully mimic in vivo epigenetic processes. We have checked whether inter-chromosome and inter-cell variability of 5hmC patterns is typical for noncultured human cells. Using indirect immunofluorescence, we analyzed the localization of 5hmC and its co-distribution with 5mC on direct preparations of mitotically active cells from human embryonic lung and chorionic cytotrophoblast samples. We demonstrated 3 types of chromosomes according to the 5hmC accumulation pattern: hydroxymethylated (5hmC in both sister chromatids), hemihydroxymethylated (5hmC in only 1 sister chromatid), and nonhydroxymethylated ones. Each accumulation type was not specific to any particular chromosome, resulting in different 5hmC patterns between homologous chromosomes, among chromosomes within each metaphase plate, among metaphases in one tissue, and between the tissues. The 5mC distribution was stable: chromosomes were methylated in R-bands and, especially in embryonic lung cells, in the heterochromatic regions 1q12, 9q12, and 16q11.2. Our results provide the first evidence of inter-cell and inter-chromosome variability of 5hmC patterns in human noncultured embryonic and extraembryonic cells.
case-report	CGR493935	First Report of Low-Rate Mosaicism for 20q11.21q12 Deletion and Delineation of the Associated Disorder First Report of Low-Rate Mosaicism for 20q11.21q12 Deletion and Delineation of the Associated Disorder Interstitial deletions of the long arm of chromosome 20 are very rare, with only 12 reported patients harboring the 20q11.2 microdeletion and presenting a disorder characterized by psychomotor and growth delay, dysmorphisms, and brachy-/clinodactyly. We describe the first case of mosaic 20q11.2 deletion in a 5-year-old girl affected by mild psychomotor delay, feeding difficulties, growth retardation, craniofacial dysmorphisms, and finger anomalies. SNP array analysis disclosed 20% of cells with a 20q11.21q12 deletion, encompassing the 20q11.2 minimal critical region and the 3 OMIM disease-causing genes GDF5, EPB41L1, and SAMHD1. We propose a pathogenic role of other genes mapping outside the small region of overlap, in particular GHRH (growth hormone releasing hormone), whose haploinsufficiency could be responsible for the prenatal onset of growth retardation which is shared by half of these patients. Our patient highlights the utility of chromosomal microarray analysis to identify low-level mosaicism.
case-report	CGR494152	Clinical and Molecular Characterization of Two Patients with CNTN6 Copy Number Variations Clinical and Molecular Characterization of Two Patients with CNTN6 Copy Number Variations Submicroscopic chromosomal alterations usually involve different protein-coding genes and regulatory elements that are responsible for rare contiguous gene disorders, which complicate the understanding of genotype-phenotype correlations. Chromosome band 3p26.3 contains 3 genes encoding neuronal cell adhesion molecules: CHL1, CNTN6, and CNTN4. We describe 2 boys aged 8 years and 11 years mainly affected by intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder, who harbor a paternally inherited 3p26.3 microdeletion and a 3p26.3 microduplication, respectively. Both anomalies involved only the CNTN6 gene, which encodes contactin 6, a member of the contactin family (MIM 607220). Contactins show pronounced brain expression and function. Interestingly, phenotypes in reciprocal microdeletions and microduplications of CNTN6 are very similar. In conclusion, our data, added to those reported in the literature, are particularly significant for understanding the pathogenic effect of single gene dosage alterations. As for other recurrent syndromes with variable phenotype, these findings are challenging in genetic counselling because of an evident variable penetrance.
review-article	CGR494157	Chromatin Diminution in Cyclops kolensis Lill. (Copepoda, Crustacea) as a Radical Way to Inactivate Redundant Genome in Somatic Cells Chromatin Diminution in Cyclops kolensis Lill. (Copepoda, Crustacea) as a Radical Way to Inactivate Redundant Genome in Somatic Cells Chromatin diminution (CD) is a phenomenon of programmed DNA elimination which takes place in early embryogenesis in some eukaryotes. The mechanism and biological role of CD remain largely unknown. During CD in the freshwater copepod Cyclops kolensis, the genome of cells of the somatic lineage is reorganized and reduced in size by more than 90% without affecting the genome of germline cells. Although the diploid chromosome number is unchanged, chromosome size is dramatically reduced by CD. The eliminated DNA consists primarily of repetitive sequences and localizes within granules during the elimination process. In this review, we provide an overview of CD in C. kolensis including both cytological and molecular studies.
research-article	CGR494289	"Analysis of Meiotic Segregation Pattern and Interchromosomal Effects in a Bull Heterozygous for a 3/16 Robertsonian Translocation Analysis of Meiotic Segregation Pattern and Interchromosomal Effects in a Bull Heterozygous for a 3/16 Robertsonian Translocation Robertsonian translocations are the most frequent chromosomal rearrangements detected in cattle. Here, we report on the detection of a new Robertsonian translocation between chromosomes BTA3 and BTA16. This rob(3;16) was dicentric, suggesting that its occurrence was recent. FISH analysis of decondensed sperm nuclei revealed a relatively low rate of unbalanced gametes produced by adjacent segregation (5.87%). In addition, and for the first time in bovines, a significant interchromosomal effect (ICE) was detected for 2 different autosomes: BTA17 (global disomy + nullisomy rate of 9%) and BTA20 (1.8%). These results suggest that ICE should be taken into consideration when assessing the putative effect of Robertsonian translocations on reproduction."
case-report	CGR494452	"A Novel and Cytogenetically Cryptic t(7;21)(q36.1;q22) Disrupting RUNX1 in Acute Myeloid Leukemia A Novel and Cytogenetically Cryptic t(7;21)(q36.1;q22) Disrupting RUNX1 in Acute Myeloid Leukemia Translocations involving the RUNX1 transcription factor gene are frequently identified in leukemia patients, but the partner genes have been characterized in only about half of these cases. We report here a novel RUNX1 partner gene, KMT2C (MLL3), in a patient with de novo acute myeloid leukemia, having a novel and cytogenetically cryptic t(7;21)(q36.1;q22) leading to disruption of RUNX1 and KMT2C. This is the third cryptic RUNX1 rearrangement in myeloid and the fourth in hematologic malignancies."
case-report	CGR494464	Localization of the SRY Gene on Chromosome 3 in a Patient with Azoospermia and a Complex Karyotype 45,X/46,X,i(Y)(q10)/46,XX/ 47,XX,i(Y)(q10) Localization of the SRY Gene on Chromosome 3 in a Patient with Azoospermia and a Complex Karyotype 45,X/46,X,i(Y)(q10)/46,XX/ 47,XX,i(Y)(q10) This study aimed to identify the cause of azoospermia in a 38-year-old infertile man who was referred for genetic testing. Cytogenetic evaluation was performed by G-banding, C-banding, and FISH using centromeric probes for chromosomes X and Y and showed the presence of a monocentric isochromosome Y with a complex, mosaic karyotype 45,X/46,X,i(Y)(q10)/46,XX/47,XX,i(Y)(q10). Multiplex PCR for the commonly deleted genes in the AZFa, AZFb, and AZFc regions of the Y chromosome was performed and indicated the presence of all 3 regions. Further, PCR amplification followed by DNA sequencing of the SRY gene was done, which ruled out mutations in that gene. To identify the position of the SRY gene, FISH using a locus-specific probe was used and showed that the gene had been translocated to chromosome 3. Subtelomere FISH for 3q and Yp evidenced that the subtelomeric region of the Y chromosome was found on the terminal region of 3q. The clinical symptoms of the patient can be attributed to this abnormal genotype. The importance of genetic testing in infertile patients and the need for genetic counselling to prevent the transmission of the defect are emphasized.
case-report	CGR494532	New Insights into Kleefstra Syndrome: Report of Two Novel Cases with Previously Unreported Features and Literature Review New Insights into Kleefstra Syndrome: Report of Two Novel Cases with Previously Unreported Features and Literature Review Kleefstra syndrome (KS) is a rare genetic condition resulting from either 9q34.3 microdeletions or mutations in the EHMT1 gene located in the same genomic region. To date, approximately 100 patients have been reported, thereby allowing the core phenotype of KS to be defined as developmental delay/intellectual disability, generalized hypotonia, neuropsychiatric anomalies, and a distinctive facial appearance. Here, to further expand the knowledge on genotype and phenotype of this condition, we report 2 novel cases: one patient carrying a 46-kb 9q34.3 deletion and showing macrocephaly never described in KS, and a second patient carrying a classic 9q34.3 deletion, presenting with a previously unreported skeletal feature (postaxial polydactyly of the right foot) and an unusual brain anomaly (olfactory bulb hypoplasia) observed via magnetic resonance imaging. Further, we provide a review of the current literature regarding KS and compare these 2 patients with those previously described, thereby confirming that the genotype-phenotype correlation in KS remains difficult to determine.
case-report	CGR494648	"The Recurrent t(11;22)(q23;q11.2) Can Occur as a Post-Zygotic Event The Recurrent t(11;22)(q23;q11.2) Can Occur as a Post-Zygotic Event The AT-rich repeat on chromosome 22q11.2 is known to be involved in the recurrent constitutional t(11;22)(q23;q11.2). Segregation of this translocation has been reported in several hundred families, but a de novo translocation event has been identified in only 8 cases, and everytime the translocation originated in paternal germ-line chromosomes. Further, de novo t(11;22) rearrangements have been detected in the sperm of healthy males, leading to the hypothesis that it occurs somewhere along the meiosis-spermatogenesis pathway. This report describes a woman whose constitutional karyotype revealed mosaicism for the recurrent t(11;22) and the subsequent testing performed to determine the origin of the translocation event. Karyotype analysis, translocation-specific PCR, human identity testing, and a SNP genotyping array were performed to detect mosaicism and/or chimerism. As a result, the SNP genotyping array revealed no evidence for mosaicism in genomic DNA beyond mosaicism for the balanced t(11;22). Human identity testing and the SNP genotyping array ruled out chimerism. PCR of the translocation breakpoint followed by sequencing confirmed that the translocation had occurred at the typical t(11;22) breakpoints. In conclusion, these results indicate that the translocation occurred post-fertilization, providing the first evidence of a de novo t(11;22)(q23;q11.2) occurring in a maternal mitotic environment."
case-report	CGR494682	"Complex Small Supernumerary Marker Chromosome Leading to Partial 4q/21q Duplications: Clinical Implication and Review of the Literature Complex Small Supernumerary Marker Chromosome Leading to Partial 4q/21q Duplications: Clinical Implication and Review of the Literature Complex small marker chromosomes (sSMCs) consist of chromosomal material derived from more than 1 chromosome. Complex sSMCs derived from chromosomes 4 and 21 are rare, with only 7 cases reported. Here, we describe a patient who presented with a complex sSMC derived from a maternal translocation between chromosomes 4 and 21, which was revealed by G-banding, MLPA, and array techniques. The marker chromosome der(21)t(4;21)(q32.1; q21.2)mat is composed of a 25.6-Mb 21pterq21.2 duplication and a 32.1-Mb 4q32.1q35.2 duplication. In comparison to patients with sSMCs derived from chromosomes 4 and 21, our patient showed a similar phenotype with neuropsychomotor developmental delay and facial dysmorphism as the most important finding, being a composition of the findings found in pure 4q and 21q duplications. The wide range of phenotypes associated with sSMCs emphasizes the importance of detailed cytogenomic analyses for an accurate diagnosis, prognosis, and genetic counseling."
research-article	CGR494707	The Karyotype of the Hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoazin) - A Phylogenetic Enigma of the Neornithes The Karyotype of the Hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoazin) - A Phylogenetic Enigma of the Neornithes The hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoazin Müller, 1776) is a folivorous bird, endemic to the Amazonian region. It presents some unique characteristics, including wing claws and foregut fermentation, which make its phylogenetic relationship to other birds difficult to determine. There have been various attempts to place it among the Galliformes, Gruiformes, Musophagiformes, Cuculiformes, and Charadriiformes, but phylogenetic analyses always show low supporting values. Nowadays, the hoatzin is included in the monotypic order Opisthocomiformes, but the relationship of this order to other groups of birds is still unclear. Although its karyotype resembles the typical avian model, fissions of the syntenic groups corresponding to chicken chromosomes 1 and 2 and 2 fusions were found. The presence of 18S rDNA clusters in 2 pairs of microchromosomes is another derived character. Hence, different rearrangements were detected in the karyotype of the hoatzin, indicating it has been derived from the putative ancestral karyotype by the occurrence of fissions and fusions. However, as these rearrangements are not exclusive to O. hoazin, they do not clarify the phylogenetic position of this enigmatic species.
research-article	CGR494708	"Silurana Chromosomal Evolution: A New Piece to the Puzzle Silurana Chromosomal Evolution: A New Piece to the Puzzle The African clawed frogs of the subgenus Silurana comprise both diploid and tetraploid species. The root of the polyploidization event leading to the extant Xenopus calcaratus, X. mellotropicalis, and X. epitropicalis is not fully understood so far. In X. mellotropicalis, we previously proposed 2 evolutionary scenarios encompassing complete (scenario A) or incomplete (scenario B) translocation of a heterochromatic block from chromosome 9 to 2 in a diploid ancestor. To resolve this puzzle, we performed FISH coupled with tyramide signal amplification (FISH-TSA) using 5 X. tropicalis and X. mellotropicalis single copy gene probes (gyg2, cept1, fn1, ndufs1, and sf3b1) reflecting borders of the heterochromatic blocks in X. tropicalis chromosome 9 (XTR 9) and X. mellotropicalis chromosome 9b (XME 9b) and XME 2a. cDNA sequencing recognized both homoeologous genes in X. mellotropicalis. Comparison of gene physical mapping between X. tropicalis and X. mellotropicalis clearly confirmed complete rather than incomplete translocation t(9;2) of the heterochromatic block in the diploid predecessor and thus favored scenario A regarding the formation of an ancestral allotetraploid karyotype."
case-report	CGR494822	"A Familial Small Supernumerary Marker Chromosome 15 Associated with Cryptic Mosaicism with Two Different Additional Marker Chromosomes Derived de novo from Chromosome 9: Detailed Case Study and Implications for Recurrent Pregnancy Loss A Familial Small Supernumerary Marker Chromosome 15 Associated with Cryptic Mosaicism with Two Different Additional Marker Chromosomes Derived de novo from Chromosome 9: Detailed Case Study and Implications for Recurrent Pregnancy Loss We report a case of familial small supernumerary marker chromosome 15 in a phenotypically normal female with 4 recurrent spontaneous abortions and a healthy child. The initial karyotype showed a small, bisatellited, apparently metacentric marker chromosome, 47,XX,+idic(15)(q11.1), maternally inherited. The proband's mother was mosaic for the idic(15)(q11.1) without pregnancy loss. Reexamination of the proband's karyotype revealed cryptic mosaicism for 1 ring and 1 minute chromosome derived de novo from chromosome 9 in 2% of the metaphases. In FISH analysis, the patient's karyotype was mos 47,XX,+idic(15)(q11.1)mat[100]/49,XX,+idic(15)(q11.1)mat,+r(9;9;9;9),+der(9)dn[2]. The second spontaneous abortion had trisomy 9 (47,XX,+9); the third had mosaic trisomy 9 in 21% of the nuclei and isodicentric chromosome 15 in 36% of the nuclei (mos 48,XN,+9,+idic(15)(q11.1)/47,XN,+9/47,XN,+idic(15)(q11.1)/46,XN). The first and fourth abortions were not cytogenetically studied. The cause of the spontaneous abortions in this patient is likely the cryptic mosaicism for ring and minute chromosomes 9, and gonadal mosaicism is most probable, due to the 2 abortions."
case-report	CGR494871	Multiple Congenital Anomalies and Global Developmental Delay in a Patient with Interstitial 6q25.2q26 Deletion: A Diagnostic Odyssey Multiple Congenital Anomalies and Global Developmental Delay in a Patient with Interstitial 6q25.2q26 Deletion: A Diagnostic Odyssey Interstitial deletions involving 6q25 are rare chromosomal abnormalities associated with distinctive phenotypic features. We describe a 9-year-old boy who was followed from his infancy due to his multiple congenital anomalies and complex medical history. Over the years, a number of diagnoses were considered including Cornelia de Lange syndrome, Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, as well as “a novel genetic disorder.” Various genetic tests, including a BAC-based array-CGH analysis, were reported as normal. Recently, a SNP-based microarray analysis was performed and showed an 11.1-Mb deletion from 6q25.2 to 6q26, including ARID1B and ZDHHC14. Recent literature suggests that the 6q25 deletion syndrome is a recognizable entity characterized by growth delay, developmental disabilities, microcephaly, hearing loss, and variable other malformations including cleft palate. These features overlap with those of Coffin-Siris syndrome, which is caused by deletions and loss-of-function mutations of ARID1B. Retrospectively, this patient has features resembling both Coffin-Siris and 6q25 microdeletion syndromes.
research-article	CGR495174	Vaccination and Host Marek's Disease-Resistance Genotype Significantly Reduce Oncogenic Gallid alphaherpesvirus 2 Telomere Integration in Host Birds Vaccination and Host Marek's Disease-Resistance Genotype Significantly Reduce Oncogenic Gallid alphaherpesvirus 2 Telomere Integration in Host Birds Marek's disease (MD) is an infectious disease characterized by lymphomas and high mortality in susceptible chickens. The causative and ubiquitous alpha-herpesvirus known as MD virus (MDV) integrates into host telomeres during early infection through latency, known to be an important phase for oncogenic transformation. Herein, we sought to determine the influence of vaccination and host genetics on the temporal dynamics of MDV-host genome interactions. We studied integration profiles using 2 MD vaccines that vary in protective efficacy in 2 genetic lines that differ in MD resistance/susceptibility. Virus integration of both oncogenic MDV and vaccine strains was observed in both MD susceptible and resistant birds, however, the lines differed in their dynamic telomere-integration profiles. Notably, the resistant host genotype exhibited a smaller percentage of replicating cells with the virus telomere-integrated only phenotype as compared to the susceptible genotype. Vaccination with Rispens, the most protective MD vaccine, also reduced the establishment of the virus telomere-integrated only phenotype, suggesting a significant role of the phenotype in MD lymphoma development. The effect of Rispens vaccination was most dramatic in the susceptible genotype. These results suggest important connections between vaccinal immunity, MDV telomere integration, virus-induced oncogenesis, and virus-host genome interactions in the context of host genetics and disease susceptibility.
research-article	CGR495199	Accumulation of Transposable Elements in Autosomes and Giant Sex Chromosomes of Omophoita (Chrysomelidae: Alticinae) Accumulation of Transposable Elements in Autosomes and Giant Sex Chromosomes of Omophoita (Chrysomelidae: Alticinae) Coleoptera is the most diverse order among insects, and comparative molecular cytogenetic studies in this group are lacking. The species of Omophoita (Oedionychina) possess a karyotype of 2n = 22 = 10II+X+Y. They are interesting models for evolutionary cytogenetic studies due to giant sex chromosomes which are asynaptic during meiosis. Transposable elements (TEs) confer plasticity and mobility to genomes and are considered hotspots for DNA double-strand breaks and chromosomal rearrangements. The objective of the present study was to verify the role of TEs in the karyotype and in the size expansion of the giant sex chromosomes in Omophoita. Thus, different TEs were characterized in the Omophoita genome and localized in the chromosomes by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). The DNA sequencing data revealed identity with TE families Tc1/Mariner and RTE/L1-56_XT. FISH showed signals of all TEs in the karyotypes and a high accumulation in the sex chromosomes of the 3 Omophoita species analyzed. These data suggest that the genome size expansion and the origin of the giant sex chromosomes of Omophoita are due to an intensive genomic invasion of TEs, as those characterized here as Tc1/Mariner-Ooc and RTE-Ooc. Differences in the chromosomal location of the TEs among the 3 species indicate that they have participated in the karyotype differentiation in Omophoita.
review-article	CGR495712	"Hox Genes in Reptile Development, Epigenetic Regulation, and Teratogenesis Hox Genes in Reptile Development, Epigenetic Regulation, and Teratogenesis Reptiles are ancestral organisms presenting a variety of shapes, from the elongated vertebral column of the snake to the turtle dorsalized ribs or retractile neck. Body plans are specified by a conserved group of homeobox-containing genes (Hox genes), which encode transcription factors important in cell fate and vertebral architecture along the anteroposterior axis during embryonic development; thus, dysregulation of these genes may cause congenital malformations, from mild-sublethal to embryonic-lethal. The genetic pool, maternal transfer, and environmental conditions during egg incubation affect development; environmental factors such as temperature, moisture, oxygen, and pollution may alter gene expression by epigenetic mechanisms. Thus, in this review, we present information regarding Hox genes and development in reptiles, including sex determination and teratogenesis. We also present some evidence of epigenetic regulation of Hox genes and the role of the environment in epigenetic modulation of gene expression. So far, the evidence suggests that the molecular instructions encoded by Hox genes to build a snake, a lizard, or a turtle represent the interplay between genome and epigenome after years of evolution, with occasional environmentally induced molecular mistakes leading to abnormal body shapes."
research-article	CHE346352	One-Year Surveillance of ESKAPE Pathogens in an Intensive Care Unit of Monterrey, Mexico One-Year Surveillance of ESKAPE Pathogens in an Intensive Care Unit of Monterrey, Mexico Background: Bacterial species from the ESKAPE group (i.e. Enterococcus faecium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Enterobacter species) are frequently resistant to antibiotics. The purpose of this study was to monitor the incidence of ESKAPE pathogens at the intensive care unit (ICU) of a tertiary care hospital in Monterrey, Mexico. Methods: All clinically relevant organisms isolated from June 2011 to June 2012 were included. Identification and susceptibility testing was performed using panels from Sensititre. Resistance to oxacillin, for S. aureus, and the production of extended spectrum β-lactamases (ESBLs), for K. pneumonia, were determined as defined by the Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute. Also, the presence of vanA and vanB genes was determined in E. faecium vancomycin (VAN)-resistant isolates. Results: The majority of pathogens (64.5%) isolated in the ICU unit were from the ESKAPE group. The organisms most frequently isolated were A. baumannii (15.8%) and P. aeruginosa (14.3%). A high resistance to carbapenems was detected for A. baumannii (75.3%) while 62% of S. aureus isolates were confirmed to be methicillin resistant. Of the K. pneumoniae isolates, 36.9% were ESBL producers. We detected three E. faecium VAN-resistant isolates, all of which contained the vanA gene. Conclusion: The presence of the ESKAPE group of pathogens is a major problem in the ICU setting. The results of this study support the implementation of special antimicrobial strategies to specifically target these microorganisms.
research-article	CHE346484	"Comparative Efficacy of Sunitinib versus Sorafenib as First-Line Treatment for Patients with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Comparative Efficacy of Sunitinib versus Sorafenib as First-Line Treatment for Patients with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Background: This study investigated the efficacy and toxicity of sorafenib and sunitinib as primary treatment for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). Methods: We identified 49 and 220 patients treated with sorafenib and sunitinib, respectively, as first-line therapy in the Asan Medical Centre from April 2005 to March 2011. Results: Disease control rates of 71 and 74% were achieved with sorafenib and sunitinib, respectively (p = 0.687). After a median follow-up of 27.6 months, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were not significantly different between the sorafenib and the sunitinib group (PFS 8.6 vs. 9.9 months, respectively, p = 0.948, and OS 25.7 vs. 22.6 months, p = 0.774). Patients treated with sorafenib required dose reduction due to toxicities less frequently than those treated with sunitinib (37 vs. 54%, p = 0.034). Haematological toxicity of grade 3 or 4 was more common in the sunitinib group than in the sorafenib group (45 vs. 4%, p &lt; 0.001). Multivariate analysis showed old age, Heng's risk group, and bone and liver metastases, but not the type of vascular endothelial growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, were independent prognostic factors affecting OS. Conclusion: The results of this study indicate that sorafenib has comparable efficacy to sunitinib in the treatment of mRCC patients and fewer and less severe toxicities, but the number of patients included in the study was small."
research-article	CHE346529	Oxacillin Resistance and Antimicrobial Susceptibility Profile of Staphylococcussaprophyticus and Other Staphylococci Isolated from Patients with Urinary Tract Infection Oxacillin Resistance and Antimicrobial Susceptibility Profile of Staphylococcussaprophyticus and Other Staphylococci Isolated from Patients with Urinary Tract Infection Background:Staphylococcus saprophyticus is the second most frequent community-acquired causative agent of urinary tract infection (UTI). The objective of this study was to evaluate the susceptibility profile and resistance detection in Staphylococcus species. isolated from patients with UTI. Materials and Methods: The isolates were investigated using the disk diffusion method, Vitek I system, E-test®, and detection of the mecA gene. Results: Most isolates (76.2%) were resistant to oxacillin by the disk diffusion method, followed by those resistant to penicillin (72.2%). The oxacillin disk diffusion method, E-test, and Vitek I method showed higher sensitivity (94.4%) and lower specificity (28.9, 26.5, and 24.0%, respectively) than the cefoxitin disk diffusion test (sensitivity: 83.5%, specificity: 85.5%) for the detection of oxacillin resistance. Conclusions: The large number of oxacillin-resistant isolates indicates that the breakpoint value recommended by the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute may overestimate oxacillin resistance in S. saprophyticus. Thus, changes in these guidelines are necessary for the correct detection of this resistance.
research-article	CHE370193	"Prognostic Factors for the Selection of Patients Eligible for Second-Line Chemotherapy in Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer Prognostic Factors for the Selection of Patients Eligible for Second-Line Chemotherapy in Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer Background: The efficacy of second-line chemotherapy (CT2) after the failure of first-line chemotherapy (CT1) for advanced biliary tract cancer (BTC) has not been established. We investigated the favorable prognostic factors for CT2 to determine which patients could be expected to benefit from CT2. Methods: From a total of 168 patients who were treated with chemotherapy at our institution between January 2003 and December 2012, we retrospectively reviewed 50 patients who received CT2. Patients were treated with various chemotherapeutic combinations as CT1 and CT2. Results: The median overall survival (OS) of patients who received and CT2 was 10.2 and 5.5 months, respectively. Good performance status (PS), a serum albumin level &gt;3.5 g/dl and metastasis to only 1 organ were independent prognostic factors that affected the OS of the patients who received CT2. Patients who had only 1 metastastic organ, a good PS and a serum albumin level &gt;3.5 g/dl at the beginning of CT2 demonstrated prolonged survival compared to patients who did not exhibit these 3 factors (9.5 vs. 4.3 months, p &lt; 0.005). Conclusions: CT2 should be considered for patients with advanced BTC, especially for those who have only 1 metastatic organ and remain in generally good medical condition after the failure of CT1."
research-article	CHE371413	"Effects of Microtubule and Actin Inhibitors on Cryptococcus neoformans Examined by Scanning and Transmission Electron Microscopy Effects of Microtubule and Actin Inhibitors on Cryptococcus neoformans Examined by Scanning and Transmission Electron Microscopy Background:Cryptococcus neoformans is one of the most important human fungal pathogens. Its cells contain rich microtubules required for nuclear division and rich F-actin cytoskeletons for cell division. Disruption of microtubules by a microtubule inhibitor should block nuclear division, and disruption of F-actin by an actin inhibitor should block cell division. We investigated the effects of microtubule and actin inhibitors to find out whether the cytoskeletons of C. neoformans can become a new anti-fungal target for the inhibition of cell division, when examined at the ultrastructural level. Methods: Cells treated with the microtubule inhibitors vincristine (VIN) and methyl benzimidazole-2-ylcarbamate (BCM) and the actin inhibitor latrunculin A (LA), in yeast extract peptone dextrose medium, were examined by scanning (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and the cell number was counted using a Bürker chamber. Results: After 2 days of inhibition with VIN, BCM or LA, the cells did not divide, but later, resistant, proliferating cells appeared in all samples. With combined microtubule and actin inhibitors (VIN + LA or BCM + LA), cells did not divide during 6 or even 14 days, and no resistant cells originated. TEM showed that the inhibited cells were without cytoplasm and were dead; only empty cell walls persisted with reduced capsules, shown on SEM. Conclusion: Combined microtubule and actin inhibitors (VIN + LA or BCM + LA), have lethal effects on C. neoformans cells and no resistant cells originate."
research-article	CHE371414	"The Optimal Treatment Modality in Patients with T4N2M0 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: The Best Choice May Be Definitive Chemoradiotherapy Followed by Consolidation Chemotherapy The Optimal Treatment Modality in Patients with T4N2M0 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: The Best Choice May Be Definitive Chemoradiotherapy Followed by Consolidation Chemotherapy Background: Stage IIIB non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) consists of T4N2M0 and TXN3M0 NSCLC. In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy of different treatment strategies on the survival of patients with radiologically confirmed T4N2M0 NSCLC. Methods: A total of 145 patients were evaluated in three groups according to the treatment protocol: induction chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy (induction group); chemoradiotherapy (CRT group), and chemoradiotherapy followed by consolidation chemotherapy (consolidation group). The groups were compared regarding survival. Results: The median progression-free survival (PFS) was 10.9, 10.8 and 17.1 months for the induction, CRT and consolidation groups, respectively (p = 0.021). The median overall survival (OS) was 17.6, 13.8 and 25.2 months for the induction, CRT and consolidation groups, respectively (p = 0.001). Conclusions: The patients with T4N2M0 NSCLC who were treated with chemoradiotherapy followed by consolidation chemotherapy had the best outcome in terms of PFS and OS."
research-article	CHE371738	In vitro Anticancer Activity of Myricanone in Human Lung Adenocarcinoma A549 Cells In vitro Anticancer Activity of Myricanone in Human Lung Adenocarcinoma A549 Cells Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Despite the new chemotherapy regimens and cytotoxic combinations investigated in multiple clinical trials in recent years, no significant improvement in the prognosis of patients with lung cancer has been achieved. Recently, scientists have focused on the potential role of extracts of traditional Chinese medicinal herbs as alternative and complementary medications for cancer treatment. Myricanone, a typical large ring of cyclic diarylheptanoids, is abundant in the bark of Myrica. Our studies have found that myricanone exerts potent anticancer activity. This study aimed to investigate the underlying mechanism of the effect of myricanone on A549 cells in vitro. Methods: A549 cells were treated with different concentrations of myricanone for the following assays. Tritiated thymidine incorporation was used to measure growth inhibition. Flow cytometry was used to detect apoptosis and cell cycle progression, and colony formation was performed to observe the effect of myricanone on the A549 proliferation rate. Results: Myricanone induced significant dose-dependent growth inhibitory effects on A549 cells with an IC50 of 3.22 µg/ml. A significant decrease in colony formation was observed. This decrease induced cell apoptosis, G1 phase arrest and the emergence of the sub-G&
meta-analysis	CHE437253	"Proteinuria in Patients with Solid Tumors Treated with Ramucirumab: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Proteinuria in Patients with Solid Tumors Treated with Ramucirumab: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of the risk of proteinuria associated with ramucirumab. Methods: Eligible studies included randomized phase II and III trials of patients with solid tumors on ramucirumab, describing events of all-grade and high-grade proteinuria. Results: Our search strategy yielded 170 potentially relevant citations from PubMed/Medline, CENTRAL Cochrane database, ASCO and ESMO meeting libraries. After exclusion of ineligible studies, a total of 11 clinical trials were considered eligible for the meta-analysis. The relative risk (RR) of all-grade proteinuria was 3.31 (95% CI 2.48-4.42; p &lt; 0.00001). Moreover, the RR of high-grade proteinuria was 5.28 (95% CI 2.32-12.01; p &lt; 0.0001). Conclusions: Our meta-analysis has demonstrated that ramucirumab use is associated with an increased risk of all-grade and high-grade proteinuria. Early detection strategies should be employed in those patients to prevent the progression to more sinister renal disease."
case-report	CHE441380	Two Fatal Cases of Accidental Intrathecal Vincristine Administration: Learning from Death Events Two Fatal Cases of Accidental Intrathecal Vincristine Administration: Learning from Death Events We report 2 cases of accidental intrathecal vincristine administration. These injections were scheduled as intravenous injections of vincristine at the same time as other intrathecal drugs were scheduled. The mistakes were recognized immediately after administration, and a lumbar puncture was performed to lavage the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) immediately after the incident. However, both cases developed progressive sensorimotor and radiculo-myelo-encephalopathy and the patients died 3 and 6 days after the incidents due to decerebration. A number of cases of accidental intrathecal vincristine administration have occurred in recent years in other settings, and we add our events to emphasize the need for a preventative and strictly followed protocol in oncology treatment units to prevent further unnecessary deaths. The best ‘cure' for mistakenly administered vincristine via lumbar puncture is prevention, which can be improved by strict adherence to a comprehensive guideline. Oncologic treatment centers should be aware of this guideline and evaluate their protocol for vincristine administration to prevent future incidents. Based on our past experiences, we strongly recommend ‘time-independent' procedures to prevent this type of incident.
meta-analysis	CHE442344	"The Efficacy of Single-Agent Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Therapy in Biologically Selected Patients with Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of 19 Randomized Controlled Trials The Efficacy of Single-Agent Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Therapy in Biologically Selected Patients with Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of 19 Randomized Controlled Trials Objective: To determine the efficacy of first-generation single-agent epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer patients with known EGFR mutation status, we undertook this pooled analysis. Method: We searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, the Science Citation Index, and the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meetings. Results: Out of 2,129 retrieved articles, 19 RCTs enrolling 2,016 patients with wild-type EGFR tumors and 1,034 patients with mutant EGFR tumors were identified. For these EGFR mutant patients, single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy improved progression-free survival (PFS) over chemotherapy: the summary hazard ratios (HRs) were 0.41 (p &lt; 0.001) for the first-line setting and 0.46 (p = 0.02) for the second-/third-line setting. For those EGFR wild-type patients, single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy did not do as well as chemotherapy in the first-line setting (HR = 1.65, p = 0.03) and in the second-/third-line setting (HR = 1.27, p = 0.006). No statistically significant difference was observed in terms of overall survival (OS). Using platinum-based doublet chemotherapy as a common comparator, indirect comparison showed the superior efficacy of single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy over EGFR-TKIs added to chemotherapy in PFS [HR = 1.35 (1.03, 1.77), p = 0.03]. Additionally, a marginal trend towards the same direction was found in the OS analysis [HR = 1.16 (0.99, 1.35), p = 0.06]. Interestingly, for those EGFR wild-type tumors, single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy was inferior to EGFR-TKIs added to chemotherapy in PFS [HR = 0.38 (0.33, 0.44), p &lt; 0.001] and OS [HR = 0.83 (0.71, 0.97), p = 0.02]. Conclusions: For these EGFR mutant patients, single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy prolonged PFS over chemotherapy. However, single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy was inferior to chemotherapy in PFS for those EGFR wild-type patients. Single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy could improve PFS over the combination of EGFR-TKIs and chemotherapy in these EGFR mutant patients. However, EGFR-TKIs combined with chemotherapy could provide additive PFS and OS benefit over single-agent EGFR-TKI therapy in those EGFR wild-type patients."
research-article	CHE443983	"Weight Loss Associated with Platinum-Based Chemotherapy in Patients with Advanced Lung Cancer Weight Loss Associated with Platinum-Based Chemotherapy in Patients with Advanced Lung Cancer Background: We examined whether the weight loss that occurs with platinum-based chemotherapy in lung cancer patients is associated with chemotherapy side effects, treatment completion rates and therapeutic effect. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed charts of advanced lung cancer patients treated with ≥2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients were divided into 2 groups based on ≥5 or &lt;5% weight loss. Relationships between weight loss and other variables were investigated. Results: Among 114 patients, 18 (15.8%) experienced ≥5% weight loss. Significantly more patients with small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) than with non-SCLC were found to have ≥5% weight loss (30.8 vs. 11.4%, p = 0.023). Patients with ≥5% weight loss experienced higher incidences of grade 3-4 leukopenia (p = 0.008) and neutropenia (p = 0.005), and treatment completion rates were lower in this group (p = 0.035). Weight loss was not significantly associated with therapeutic effect. Conclusion: The weight loss in patients with advanced lung cancer receiving platinum-based chemotherapy is associated with SCLC, grade 3-4 leukopenia, neutropenia and a decrease in treatment completion rate."
research-article	CHE444122	Efficacy and Safety Assessment of Paclitaxel in Patients with Docetaxel-Resistant Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Efficacy and Safety Assessment of Paclitaxel in Patients with Docetaxel-Resistant Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Background: Incomplete cross-resistances between paclitaxel (PTX) and docetaxel (DTX) has been demonstrated in several types of cancer. The objective of the present study was to assess the existence of cross-resistance between PTX and DTX in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Methods: Patients in the PTX group received PTX without DTX pretreatment, patients in the prior DTX (Pr-DTX) group received PTX after the development of resistance to DTX, and patients in the DTX group received DTX without subsequent PTX treatment. Results: A total of 73 patients were enrolled. The response rates to PTX in the PTX and Pr-DTX groups were 22.7 and 20.0%, respectively. The median progression-free survival times from the first day of PTX treatment in the PTX and Pr-DTX groups were 113 (95% CI 56-154) and 97 days (95% CI 36-189), respectively. The median overall survival times from the first day of DTX treatment in the Pr-DTX and DTX groups were 315 (95% CI 124-453) and 148 days (95% CI 139-177), respectively. Conclusions: There is no or incomplete clinical cross-resistance between PTX and DTX in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Replacement of DTX with PTX is a suitable treatment option for patients with DTX-resistant esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
meta-analysis	CHE445425	Efficacy and Safety of Tigecycline for Patients with Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia Efficacy and Safety of Tigecycline for Patients with Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia Background: Tigecycline is an antibiotic agent with a broad spectrum, which has an antibacterial effect against many multidrug-resistant organisms. However, its clinical efficacy in the treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) is disputed. Materials and Methods: In this report, a systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tigecycline for the treatment of HAP. The primary outcome was the rate of clinical cure, and the secondary outcomes were mortality and adverse events (AEs). Results: Four trials involving 1,234 patients were included. The standard-dose tigecycline and comparator groups did not differ significantly in their rates of clinical cure. However, high-dose tigecycline was more effective than standard-dose tigecycline or the comparators for the treatment of HAP. There was no significant difference in mortality between the standard-dose or high-dose regimen and the comparators. Although the safety profile of standard-dose tigecycline was similar to the comparators, the high-dose regimen exhibited more AEs compared with the other groups. Conclusion: High-dose tigecycline is efficient for the treatment of HAP but is associated with more AEs.
case-report	CHE447118	Patients with Metastatic Colorectal Cancer and Hyperbilirubinemia Treated with FOLFIRI plus Bevacizumab as First-Line Treatment Patients with Metastatic Colorectal Cancer and Hyperbilirubinemia Treated with FOLFIRI plus Bevacizumab as First-Line Treatment Metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) combined with hyperbilirubinemia is typically considered a contraindication to irinotecan-based therapy, a proven first-line treatment of mCRC. Herein, we present 6 consecutive patients with mCRC combined with hyperbilirubinemia who underwent UGT1A1 genotyping before receiving FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab. Dose escalation of irinotecan was performed according to the results of UGT1A1 genotyping in all patients. Improvement in the serum total bilirubin level to a normal range was noted in all 6 patients. Disease control was 100%. The median progression-free survival was 7.5 months and the median overall survival was 8.5 months. FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab as a first-line chemotherapy may achieve effective disease control and be safe in patients with mCRC and hyperbilirubinemia based on UGT1A1 genotyping. More prospective clinical studies are necessary to evaluate the clinical benefits and safety of this treatment approach.
case-report	CHE448750	Ponatinib Induces a Persistent Molecular Response and Graft-versus-Host Disease/Graft-versus-Leukemia Effect in a Patient with Philadelphia-Positive Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia with a T315I Mutation following Early Relapse after Allogeneic Transplant Ponatinib Induces a Persistent Molecular Response and Graft-versus-Host Disease/Graft-versus-Leukemia Effect in a Patient with Philadelphia-Positive Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia with a T315I Mutation following Early Relapse after Allogeneic Transplant We describe the case of a patient with a Philadelphia-positive (Ph+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with dasatinib plus steroids as the first-line therapy who achieved a molecular complete remission and then underwent a matched, unrelated donor allogeneic transplant. Five months after the transplant, he experienced a disease relapse with an T315I mutation, which was resistant to salvage chemotherapy. Once the details of the T315I mutation were acquired, we initiated ponatinib treatment at a standard dosage and observed a rapid decrease of minimal residual disease (MRD) at molecular assessment. The bone marrow evaluation after 2, 3, 6, 10 and 13 months was negative for MRD. After starting ponatinib, the patient experienced a skin graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), whereas no occurrence of GVHD was observed after transplant, suggesting that the efficacy of ponatinib could be related not only to the direct antileukemic effect, but also to its ability to promote an indirect graft-versus-leukemia effect. Ponatinib was well tolerated but a thyroid dysfunction mimicking a cardiovascular toxicity was observed and solved with hormonal substitutive treatment.
meta-analysis	CHE465515	"Is the Prophylactic Use of Hepatoprotectants Necessary in Anti-Tuberculosis Treatment? Is the Prophylactic Use of Hepatoprotectants Necessary in Anti-Tuberculosis Treatment? Background: Liver injury is one of the serious side effects of anti-tuberculosis (TB) drugs. It is controversial whether hepatoprotectant prophylaxis is efficient and safe in anti-TB treatment, so we aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of hepatoprotectant prophylaxis in patients who had received anti-TB treatment. Methods: PubMed, the Cochrane library, Embase, Ovid, Springer link, Wiley, Elsevier, Web of Science, and the Karger Online Journal were systematically searched prior to April 2016 for articles related to hepatoprotectant prophylaxis in the treatment of TB. A meta-analysis was conducted to estimate the effect of hepatoprotective agents on liver function and adverse events (AEs) in patients who had received anti-TB drugs. The primary outcomes were changes in alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase (AST) levels. The other outcomes were drug-induced liver injury (DILI) and AEs. Results: In our review, 6 trials that involved 1,227 patients were included. Our analysis indicated that hepatoprotective agents exerted protective effects on liver function in patients who had received anti-TB drugs (weighted mean difference, WMD = -7.81, 95% CI [-12.26, -3.37], p = 0.0006 [ALT]; WMD = -7.07, 95% CI [-11.43, -2.72], p = 0.001 [AST]) in any age group. However, in the subgroup analysis of treatment duration, the use of hepatoprotective agents was not associated with significant changes in ALT and AST levels after 2 weeks of treatment and exhibited a positive effect on liver function after 4 weeks of treatment. Moreover, the use of hepatoprotectants significantly decreased the number of DILI cases (risk ratio, RR 0.50, 95% CI [0.34-0.73], p = 0.0004). However, the use of hepatoprotectants led to similar AEs in the control groups (RR 1.07, 95% CI [0.82-1.39], p = 0.62). Conclusions: The use of hepatoprotective drugs may prevent liver injury in patients who are receiving anti-TB drugs without any significant AEs 4 weeks after the initiation of hepatoprotective medication."
review-article	CHE479425	Combination Therapy with Capecitabine and Cisplatin as Second-Line Chemotherapy for Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer Combination Therapy with Capecitabine and Cisplatin as Second-Line Chemotherapy for Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer Background/Aims: Palliative chemotherapy is the main treatment for advanced biliary tract cancer (BTC). However, there is a lack of established second-line chemotherapy to treat disease progression after first-line chemotherapy. We examined combination therapy with capecitabine and cisplatin for advanced BTC as a second-line regimen. Methods: We analyzed the medical records of 40 patients diagnosed with BTC who received palliative second-line chemotherapy with capecitabine and cisplatin. Results: The median overall survival from the start of second-line chemotherapy was 6.3 months. The median overall survival from diagnosis was 17.9 months. The median progression-free survival during second-line chemotherapy was 2.3 months. Nine (30%) patients experienced adverse events of grade ≥3. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance score was an independent predictor of adverse events. Conclusions: Combination therapy with capecitabine and cisplatin may be an option for second-line chemotherapy in some of patients with advanced BTC.
systematic-review	CHE489503	"Specifications of Computerized Provider Order Entry and Clinical Decision Support Systems for Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy: A Systematic Review Specifications of Computerized Provider Order Entry and Clinical Decision Support Systems for Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy: A Systematic Review Objective: Chemotherapy medication errors are catastrophic. The prescription phase in the chemotherapy process plays a key role in the creation of medication errors, and therefore the use of computerized physician order entry (CPOE) and clinical decision support system (CDS) systems is recommended to reduce chemotherapy medication errors. The purpose of this study was to carry out a systematic review on the specifications of the CPOE and CDS systems for chemotherapy prescription. Materials and Methods: A systematic review on articles published in English up to September 22, 2017, using the 3 databases PubMed, Embase, and Medline was conducted. Those articles that focused on the specifications of CPOE and CDSS in chemotherapy prescription were included in this review. Findings: Of the 2,471 articles identified, 58 articles met the inclusion criteria and were included in this study. Specifications related to chemotherapy CPOE systems were categorized into the following 6 groups: automation and facilitation of the chemotherapy prescription phase, hospital workflow support, documentation and reporting, drug safety, information security, and system communications. The specifications of chemotherapy CDSS were also divided into 4 categories: embedding chemotherapy protocols, automated dose calculations and adjustment, providing alerts/reminders at the time of prescribing, and guiding or asking the user to complete the important prescription parameters. In 12 articles, the chemotherapy prescription CDSS were designed and evaluated independently of the CPOE; 45 articles provided prescription chemotherapy CDSS as part of the CPOE system, and in 1 article CPOE was introduced with no CDSS. Conclusion: In complicated settings such as chemotherapy, simplification of the processes is more imperative. The use of chemotherapy CPOE, which includes specifications for helping the medical staff with their workload, encourages the professionals to use such systems and increases the likelihood for success of these systems."
research-article	CHE489789	Hepatitis B Reactivation Rate Is Higher Undergoing Some Cytotoxic Chemotherapy in Patients with Solid Tumors: A Large Retrospective Study Hepatitis B Reactivation Rate Is Higher Undergoing Some Cytotoxic Chemotherapy in Patients with Solid Tumors: A Large Retrospective Study Objective: The reactivation rate of chronic hepatitis B virus infection in cancer patients and chemotherapy regimens thought to be associated with hepatitis reactivation were investigated. Patients and Methods: In all, 3,890 cancer patients were included in this study. Mortality rates, chemotherapy regimens, cancer types, number of positive hepatitis serology and reactivation rates were obtained. Results: Only 354 patients had positive hepatitis serology results (HBsAg+). Twenty-four patients (6.7%) with HBsAg positive serology had reactivation. In patients with hepatitis reactivation, the rates of usage of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, steroid, rituximab, and vincristine were found to be significantly higher than corresponding rates in patients with positive hepatitis serology results but without hepatitis reactivation (p &
case-report	CHE493196	Pharmacokinetics of Ceftolozane-Tazobactam during Prolonged Intermittent Renal Replacement Therapy Pharmacokinetics of Ceftolozane-Tazobactam during Prolonged Intermittent Renal Replacement Therapy Background: Prolonged intermittent renal replacement therapy (PIRRT) eliminates many drugs, and without dosing data, for new antibiotics like ceftolozane/tazobactam, suboptimal concentrations and treatment failure are likely. Objectives: Herein, we describe the effect of PIRRT on the plasma pharmacokinetics of ceftolozane/tazobactam ad­ministered in a critically ill 55-year-old patient with a polymicrobial sternal wound osteomyelitis, including a multiresistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Method: Blood samples were taken over 4 days where the patient received a 7.5-h PIRRT treatment. One- and 2-compartment models were tested for ceftolozane and tazobactam separately, and the log-likelihood ratio and goodness-of-fit plots were used to select the final model. Results: Two-compartment models were developed for ceftolozane and tazobactam separately and described significant differences in clearance of ceftolozane and tazobactam with and without PIRRT (8.273 vs. 0.393 and 8.020 vs. 0.767 L/h, respectively). Conclusions: A ceftolozane/tazobactam dose of 500 mg/250 mg appears to be sufficient to attain pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic targets during PIRRT while the manufacturer’s recommended dosing of 100 mg/50 mg every 8 h was sufficient during non-PIRRT periods.
case-report	CHE494504	Small-Cell Lung Cancer Comorbid with Pulmonary Mycobacterium avium Infection: A Case Report Small-Cell Lung Cancer Comorbid with Pulmonary Mycobacterium avium Infection: A Case Report Background: Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) rarely coexists with pulmonary Mycobacterium avium intracellular complex (MAC) infection. The key drug for SCLC treatment is etoposide, which is metabolized by cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 3A4. Meanwhile, the key drugs for pulmonary MAC infection are clarithromycin (CAM) and rifampicin (RFP), and their metabolism influences CYP3A4. Therefore, treatment of concurrent SCLC and pulmonary MAC infection is difficult, and to the best of our knowledge, no report of treatments for concurrent SCLC and pulmonary MAC infection has been published. Patient Concerns and Diagnoses: A 65-year-old man presented to our hospital with abnormal findings of chest computed tomography: (1) a hilar region nodule in the left lung and mediastinal lymphadenopathy and (2) a thick-walled cavity lesion in the right upper lobe of the lung. After further examinations, the former lesions were diagnosed as SCLC, cT4N3M0, stage IIIC and the latter as pulmonary MAC infection, fibrocavitary disease. Interventions and Outcomes: Concurrent treatment was conducted with discontinuation of CAM and RFP before and after etoposide administration. Specifically, intravenous cisplatin and etoposide were administered on day 1 and days 1–3, respectively, and CAM, RFP, and ethambutol (EB) were administered orally on days 6–22 every 4 weeks. Concurrent radiotherapy was added to the drug administration on days 1–27 of the first cycle. The chemotherapy was continued for 4 cycles, followed by continuation of CAM and RFP administration. EB was discontinued because of optic nerve disorder. The treatments were conducted completely and safely, and both of the SCLC lesions and the MAC lesion were improved. Conclusions: Treatments for concurrent SCLC and pulmonary MAC infection may be successfully conducted with discontinuation of CAM and RFP before and after etoposide administration.
case-report	CHE494841	Recurrent Episodes of Nivolumab-Induced Pneumonitis after Nivolumab Discontinuation and the Time Course of Carcinoembryonic Antigen Levels: A Case of a 58-Year-Old Woman with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Recurrent Episodes of Nivolumab-Induced Pneumonitis after Nivolumab Discontinuation and the Time Course of Carcinoembryonic Antigen Levels: A Case of a 58-Year-Old Woman with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Introduction: The introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors heralded a new era in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. However, nivolumab, an anti-PD-1 antibody, can cause serious adverse events that are mostly autoimmune related. Case Presentation: A 58-year-old woman was treated with nivolumab as second-line therapy for stage IV adenocarcinoma. The patient developed a nivolumab-induced recurrent pneumonitis preceding durable clinical remission after seven cycles of nivolumab. Although high-dose glucocorticosteroids were tapered to conform to contemporary guidelines, recurring episodes of pneumonitis occurred without nivolumab rechallenge. In addition, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) serum levels were associated with treatment response, since CEA decline correlated with a near complete radiological response and, conversely, elevated CEA serum levels were associated with progressive disease. Conclusions: In this case, we described recurrence of nivolumab-induced pneumonitis as a serious adverse event in immune checkpoint inhibitors. Our case illustrates that immune-related adverse events may correlate with antitumour activity, even after treatment discontinuation. In addition, this case suggests the possible clinical utility of CEA serum levels for the assessment of (durable) effects of immunotherapy.
meta-analysis	CMR479630	"Acupuncture May Improve Quality of Life in Menopausal Women: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Acupuncture May Improve Quality of Life in Menopausal Women: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Objective: This analysis aims to identify, on the basis of the results of randomized controlled trials (RCTs), whether acupuncture therapy can alleviate menopausal symptoms and promote health-related quality of life. Methods: We included RCTs that directly compared any type of acupuncture with sham acupuncture in treating menopause-related symptoms and which were published from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2016 in 6 electronic databases. Two authors performed this work independently; ‘risk-of-bias' assessment and data extraction were also independently performed by these 2 review authors. The outcomes are presented as scores of the menopause rating scale (MRS), which represents the self-assessment of patients. Results: Six studies were included. Our analysis found that acupuncture can reduce the MRS score in menopausal women by the end of the treating period (2-3 months, on average) and even in the follow-up period (1-3 months), not only in the total score but also in each subscale score. But the grade of evidence is very low. Conclusions: Both the total score and the subgroup analysis strongly indicated that acupuncture can alleviate menopause-related symptoms. However, the evidence is not very strong. Thus, further studies about the efficiency of acupuncture on menopausal symptoms based on well-designed trials are needed."
review-article	CMR485077	Use of Self-Medication with Homeopathy in Germany: Results of an Online Questionnaire Survey Use of Self-Medication with Homeopathy in Germany: Results of an Online Questionnaire Survey Background: Little is known about self-medication with homeopathic drugs in Germany. The aim of this study was to gain information about users, sources of information and the selection process of the drugs. Methods: An online questionnaire survey among users of self-medication with homeopathy was conducted via social media and email newsletters. Results: A total of 665 users who responded to the questionnaire were included. Most of the respondents were women (92%) in their mid-forties with high educational status. In total, 43% of the participants reported a household member working in the health sector. Books (65%) and Internet (47%) were the most common sources of information. Consultations in pharmacies - with a mean duration of 10 min - were likely to be used (60%). Homeopathic drugs were mainly used in the potency D12 (55%), for a duration of 5 days, 3 times daily, with 5 globules. Homeopathic drugs were mainly used due to good therapeutic experiences in the past (82%). Indications for use were acute diseases (91%), particularly colds (86%), as well as chronic diseases (51%) and prevention (47%). The selection of a homeopathic drug took the participants 25 min on average. Conclusion: Homeopathic self-medication is understood by users as a resource to regain, maintain, and promote health. Further research about the quality and applicability of information for homeopathic self-medication is necessary.
meta-analysis	CMR488707	"Cupping Therapy for Knee Osteoarthritis: A Synthesis of Evidence Cupping Therapy for Knee Osteoarthritis: A Synthesis of Evidence Background: This systematic review was aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cupping therapy for treating patients with knee osteoarthritis (KOA). Methods: The following databases were searched from their inception until June 2017: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, EMBASE, and 4 Chinese databases (Wan Fang Data, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM), VeiPu, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI)). Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing the effects of cupping therapy on KOA were included in this systematic review. A quantitative synthesis of the RCTs was conducted using RevMan 5.3 software. Study selection and data extraction and validation were performed independently by 2 reviewers. Cochrane criteria for risk of bias were used to assess the methodological quality of the trials. Results: A total of 5 studies met our inclusion criteria. We analyzed the data from these 5 RCTs involving 535 participants. All included studies were judged to be at high risk for bias. Dry cupping therapy plus Western medicine therapy was more effective than Western therapy alone in reducing the pain scores (mean difference (MD) = -1.79, 95% confidence interval (CI) -2.40 to -1.18; p &lt; 0.01). In addition, the study participants in the dry cupping therapy plus Western medicine therapy group showed significantly greater improvements in the pain (MD = -0.73, 95% CI -1.61 to -0.41; p &lt; 0.01), stiffness (MD = -0.94, 95% CI -1.30 to -0.58; p &lt; 0.01), and physical function (MD = -10.07, 95% CI -13.45 to -6.69; p &lt; 0.01) domains of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) compared to participants in the Western medicine therapy group. Moreover, when compared with Western medicine therapy alone, a meta-analysis of 4 RCTs suggested statistically significant favorable effects of wet cupping therapy plus Western medicine on the Lequesne Algofunctional Index (LAI) (MD = -3.44, 95% CI -4.21 to -2.68; p &lt; 0.01). Conclusion: There is weak evidence to support the hypothesis that cupping therapy has beneficial effects on reducing the pain intensity and improving the physical function in patients with KOA."
research-article	CMR490104	"Salvia officinalis Reduces the Severity of the Premenstrual Syndrome Salvia officinalis Reduces the Severity of the Premenstrual Syndrome Background: This study aims to investigate the effects of Salvia officinalis on the severity of the premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Methods: This was a triple-blinded randomized clinical trial on 90 college students in Tehran, Iran. The participants were randomly divided into 2 groups who were treated with 500-mg Salvia officinalis capsules or placebo once a day for 2 consecutive months. Data were collected using a questionnaire and a daily form for recording symptoms of PMS. Results: The mean decreases in severity of the symptoms in the Salvia officinalis extract-treated group during the first and second months after treatment were 19.84% and 23.42%, respectively. The comparison of the PMS physical and psychological symptoms demonstrated a decrease following treatment in both groups, with more remarkable reduction in the Salvia officinalis group (p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: Salvia officinalis is an effective alternative agent to reduce the severity of psychological and physical symptoms of PMS."
research-article	CMR490348	"Effects of Music Therapy on the Care Burden of In-Home Caregivers and Physiological Parameters of Their In-Home Dementia Patients: A Randomized Controlled Trial Effects of Music Therapy on the Care Burden of In-Home Caregivers and Physiological Parameters of Their In-Home Dementia Patients: A Randomized Controlled Trial Objectives: This study was conducted to explore the effects of classical Turkish music therapy on both the caregiver burden and physiological parameters of patients with dementia. Methods: The study was a randomized controlled trial. It was conducted with dementia patients (n = 75) and their caregivers who were registered at in-home care services of the General Secretariat of the Association of Public Hospitals in Ordu. The study sample consisted of 30 control and 30 music group patients and their caregivers who satisfied the inclusion criteria for the study conducted between April 2015 and April 2016. The primary outcome of the study was to measure the care burden of in-home caregivers, and the secondary outcome was to measure physiological parameters, including systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration rate in patients with dementia. Results: The mean scores of the post-test caregiver burden in the music group were found to be significantly lower than those of the control group (t = -4.478, p = 0.001). The differences in the post-test systolic and diastolic blood pressures between the patient groups were found to be statistically significant (t = -4.603, p = 0.001; t = -2.656, p = 0.010). Conclusions: Classical Turkish music intervention in in-home dementia patients decreased the care burden of caregivers and the patients' blood pressures were brought under control. In parallel with these results, it is recommended that more studies to reveal the effects of classical Turkish music on care burden should be conducted."
systematic-review	CMR491693	Efficacy of Non-Invasive Auricular Acupressure for Treating Constipation in Leukemia Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy: A Systematic Review Efficacy of Non-Invasive Auricular Acupressure for Treating Constipation in Leukemia Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy: A Systematic Review Background: The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the available evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of auricular acupressure (AA) therapy for preventing constipation in leukemia patients undergoing chemotherapy. Methods: We searched 5 English databases and 4 Chinese databases, from their inception until August 2017. Quantitative syntheses of RCTs were conducted using RevMan 5.3 software. Study selection, data extraction, and validation were performed independently by 2 reviewers. Cochrane criteria for risk-of-bias were used to assess the methodological quality of the trials. Results: Five RCTs met the inclusion criteria, and most were of low methodological quality. All RCTs compared AA + routine care with routine care alone. Our analysis found that complementary effects of AA can improve the scores of the Bristol Stool Form (BSF), the Constipation Assessment Scale (CAS), and the Patient Assessment of Constipation-Quality of Life (PAC-QOL). However, the same positive results were not found in terms of the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), the EuroQoL 5-domain (EQ-5D), and the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS). Conclusions: Overall, as a potential safety therapy, AA may be recommended in addition to routine care including use of laxatives to prevent constipation in leukemia patients undergoing chemotherapy. In the future, more rigorous RCTs must be conducted to overcome the limitations of our existing data and to confirm the effect and safety of AA for managing constipation in leukemia patients undergoing chemotherapy.
research-article	CMR492384	"Antidermatophyte Activity of the Gentiopicroside-Rich n-Butanol Fraction from Gentiana siphonantha Maxim. Root on a Guinea Pig Model of Dermatophytosis Antidermatophyte Activity of the Gentiopicroside-Rich n-Butanol Fraction from Gentiana siphonantha Maxim. Root on a Guinea Pig Model of Dermatophytosis Background:Gentiana siphonantha Maxim. is a traditional medicine for the treatment of rheumarthritis, icterepatitis, pain and hypertension; it is rich in gentiopicroside with anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, and free radical-scavenging activities. This study was to evaluate the antidermatophyte activity of G. siphonantha on a guinea pig model in vitro and in vivo. Material andMethods: The antidermatophyte activities of 10 plants were tested by the broth microdilution method. Fractions and an extract of G. siphonantha were tested against Trichophyton mentagrophytes by the disc diffusion method. The morphological changes of T. mentagrophytes were observed. Component analysis of the n-butanol (n-BuOH) fraction was made by HPLC. Finally, the antifungal activity in an in vivo guinea pig model of dermatophytosis was examined. Results:G. siphonantha had strong antidermatophyte activity with MIC50 values of 32-64 μg/mL. The n-BuOH fraction of G. siphonantha showed the most potent activity compared to the other fractions. After being exposed to the n-BuOH fraction at 80 and 160 μg/mL, the hyphae were distorted and collapsed. Gentiopicroside is the main active ingredient in the n-BuOH fraction of G. siphonantha. The lesion scores of the guinea pig model of dermatophytosis significantly declined in the 10% and 30% extract and positive control groups in comparison with the untreated control group. Periodic acid-Schiff and hematoxylin/eosin staining displayed similar results. Conclusion: The n-BuOH fraction of G. siphonantha demonstrated antidermatophyte efficacy in experimental dermatophytosis."
research-article	CMR494457	Traditional Health Practitioners in Indonesia: Their Profile, Practice and Treatment Characteristics Traditional Health Practitioners in Indonesia: Their Profile, Practice and Treatment Characteristics Background: The demand for traditional health care is rising. The study aims to investigate the profile, practice and treatment characteristics of traditional health practitioners who participated in the Indonesia Family Life Survey (IFLS-5) in 2015. Methods: A national community facility cross-sectional survey was carried out with a probability sample of 4,461 traditional health practitioners in Indonesia. Results: Traditional health practitioners were typically female, over 50 years old, had no or lower levels of education, worked only as a healer, saw 8 patients a week and consulted for 60 min per patient. The most common treatment types provided included massage for babies (71.4%), followed by massage (reflexive massage) (25.6%), herbal remedies (23.4%), and delivery (22.0%). Many claimed to cure or solve the problems of stomachache or diarrhea (67.7%), flu or headache (64.7%), pain during pregnancy (52.0%), rheumatism (36.4%), and insomnia, stress or nervousness (35.5%). In adjusted logistic regression analysis, younger age, being male, having completed grades 1-6, urban residence, more years of practice, lower average consultation time, using tools or equipment, providing herbal remedies, and charging service fees were associated with high patient throughput. Conclusions: Our analysis provides insights into the profile, practice and treatment characteristics of traditional health practitioners in Indonesia. Sociodemographic, practice and treatment characteristics are accountable for a high patient throughput.
case-report	CND441715	Macrophage Infiltration into the Glomeruli in Lipoprotein Glomerulopathy Macrophage Infiltration into the Glomeruli in Lipoprotein Glomerulopathy Lipoprotein glomerulopathy (LPG) is characterized by histopathological features showing intra-glomerular lipoprotein thrombi and type III hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP), with heterozygote mutation of apolipoprotein (apo) E gene. On the other hand, as another renal lipidosis with type III HLP, apoE2 homozygote-related glomerulopathy (apoE2-GN) showing foamy macrophages has been reported. The case of a 25-year-old man who had LPG by clinical behavior and gene analysis, but demonstrated atypical histopathological features with a substantial amount of foamy macrophage infiltration in the glomeruli, is presented. The combination of alleles for apoE Tokyo/Maebashi and classical apoE2 (Arg158Cys) was inferred to be the leading cause of the unique renal pathology with lipoprotein thrombi and foamy macrophages. In addition, foamy macrophages infiltrated some part of the apoE-positive region within the glomerulus, but did not exist in lipoprotein thrombi despite apoE positivity, suggesting that properties of apoE are crucial in the development of LPG rather than macrophage function. This case provides important information related to the pathogenesis of LPG and apoE2-GN.
case-report	CND447554	Maintenance Hemodialysis Using Native Arteriovenous Fistula in a Patient with Severe Generalized Recessive Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa Maintenance Hemodialysis Using Native Arteriovenous Fistula in a Patient with Severe Generalized Recessive Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa Renal failure and infectious disease are strongly associated with morbidity and mortality in patients with severe generalized recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB-sev gen). However, it is reportedly difficult to introduce hemodialysis with an arteriovenous fistula (AVF). We encountered a 32-year-old man with RDEB-sev gen in whom hemodialysis with a native AVF was introduced that favorably affected his long-term survival. This patient eventually died because of cachexia related to the recurrence of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma 51 months after hemodialysis introduction. We believe that in this patient, the frequency of vascular access troubles related to infection or reduction of blood flow was probably low as a result of hemodialysis with his native AVF. Thus, it seems likely that patients with RDEB-sev gen with end stage kidney disease who are on hemodialysis can be successfully managed with a native AVF.
case-report	CND448731	A Unique Cause of Proteinuria in Pregnancy: Class II Lupus Nephritis with Concomitant Minimal Change Disease A Unique Cause of Proteinuria in Pregnancy: Class II Lupus Nephritis with Concomitant Minimal Change Disease We report the case of a 22-year-old African American female who presented to another facility for routine follow-up in the 34th week of pregnancy with lower extremity swelling and nephrotic-range proteinuria. Although she was normotensive, it was initially thought that she had preeclampsia. She was monitored carefully and delivery was induced at 37 weeks of gestation. She was transferred to our hospital, where she was diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) based on clinical and laboratory criteria. Renal biopsy revealed a surprising finding of minimal change disease (MCD) concomitant with class II lupus nephritis (LN). She was managed with pulses and then tapering doses of steroid therapy with dramatic resolution of the nephrotic syndrome. This case demonstrates not only the rare de novo occurrence of SLE in pregnancy, but the unique finding of MCD coexisting with class II LN. We propose that altered T cell activity may be the link between these seemingly distinct entities.
case-report	CND493090	"Asymptomatic Lupus Cystitis with Bilateral Hydronephrosis Asymptomatic Lupus Cystitis with Bilateral Hydronephrosis Lupus cystitis is a rare complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). It is characterized by an increase in bladder wall thickness and may be associated with hydroureteronephrosis. Reports, mostly from East Asian countries, indicate that lupus cystitis usually presents with gastrointestinal tract symptoms such as diarrhea, nausea, or abdominal pain. Lower urinarytract symptoms such as dysuria, nocturia, polyuria, and suprapubic pain are also common presenting symptoms. We report a 22-year-old female patient who presented at Cipto Mangunkusumo Teaching Hospital in Indonesia, with profuse and prolonged vaginal bleeding without any other accompanying symptoms. She had a history of polyarthralgias, fever, bleeding gums, anemia, and thrombocytopenia 3 months earlier. Abdominal ultrasound examination revealed bilateral hydronephrosis and a thickened bladder wall; the other organs were normal. Laboratory examination confirmed the diagnosis of SLE complicated by lupus nephritis and lupus cystitis. The patient responded well to the treatment with methylprednisolone. The vaginal bleeding stopped within 2 days, and the laboratory parameters improved. She was discharged on oral methylprednisolone and is scheduled for detailed workup after 1 month."
case-report	CND493091	Primary Hyperoxaluria Type 1 with Thrombophilia in Pregnancy: A Case Report Primary Hyperoxaluria Type 1 with Thrombophilia in Pregnancy: A Case Report Background: Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is a rare autosomal recessive disease caused by a mutation in the AGXT gene, resulting in deficiency of the alanineglyoxylate:aminotransferase enzyme. It is characterized by accumulation of oxalate in the kidneys and other organs. Case Presentation: A Syrian woman with a history of nephrolithiasis and heterozygosity for factor V Leiden and prothrombin gene mutations presented with postpartum renal failure. She required initiation of renal replacement therapy at 14 weeks postpartum. Kidney biopsy showed severe acute and chronic crystalline deposition consistent with oxalate nephropathy. Genetic testing revealed a Gly170Arg mutation in the AGXT gene, confirming the diagnosis of PH1. Conclusions: The diagnosis of PH should be considered in patients with severe, recurrent calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis. Early treatment with pyridoxine reduces urinary oxalate excretion and can delay progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD). After ESRD, intensive dialysis is needed to prevent systemic oxalate accumulation and deposition. Combined liver and kidney transplantation is curative. In our patient, we anticipate that liver transplantation will cure both the hyperoxaluria and the hypercoagulable state.
case-report	CND493092	Three Severe Cases of Viral Infections with Post-Kidney Transplantation Successfully Confirmed by Polymerase Chain Reaction and Flow Cytometry Three Severe Cases of Viral Infections with Post-Kidney Transplantation Successfully Confirmed by Polymerase Chain Reaction and Flow Cytometry Viral infections in patients with post-kidney transplantation are often difficult to diagnose as well as treat. We herein report three cases with severe viral infections after kidney transplantation. All their causative pathogens could be detected promptly by polymerase chain reaction and flow cytometry during the early stages of infection. These examinations would also be of great use to monitor therapeutic responses and disease activity. It is indeed true that no specific treatment is available for most of the viral infections, but we should be aware that some infections, such as Epstein-Barr virus infection, can be treatable with prompt and specific treatment, such as rituximab.
case-report	CND493093	Bioptically Proven “Anticoagulation-Related Nephropathy“ Induced by Dual Antiplatelet Therapy Bioptically Proven “Anticoagulation-Related Nephropathy“ Induced by Dual Antiplatelet Therapy Anticoagulation-related nephropathy (ARN) is a significant and underdiagnosed complication in patients who receive anticoagulation therapy. It is characterized by acute kidney injury in the setting of excessive anticoagulation defined as an international normalized ratio &
case-report	CND493231	Bile Cast Nephropathy: A Pathologic Finding with Manifold Causes Displayed in an Adult with Alcoholic Steatohepatitis and in a Child with Wilson’s Disease Bile Cast Nephropathy: A Pathologic Finding with Manifold Causes Displayed in an Adult with Alcoholic Steatohepatitis and in a Child with Wilson’s Disease Bile cast nephropathy (BCN) is seen in patients who have acute kidney injury and severe hyperbilirubinemia due to a wide range of hepatobiliary system diseases. Findings seen by renal biopsy include acute tubular injury with necrotic and sloughed epithelial cells, yellow-green pigment within tubular epithelial cells, and pigmented granular casts. Hall’s special stain for bile turns these casts green. In recent years, BCN has been described in a small number of case reports and clinical studies primarily in the setting of severe liver dysfunction. We present 2 diverse cases of BCN. The first involves an adult with hepatorenal syndrome secondary to alcoholic steatohepatitis and early cirrhosis. Second, we describe the first reported case of BCN in a child with fulminant hepatic failure due to Wilson’s disease. Our cases expand the spectrum of causative diseases, and they provide further evidence that BCN is a distinct pathologic entity which may be found in both adult and pediatric patients with a variety of severe liver diseases.
case-report	COP324909	Vitrectomy and Internal Limiting Membrane Peeling of a Traumatic Macular Hole with Retinal Folds Vitrectomy and Internal Limiting Membrane Peeling of a Traumatic Macular Hole with Retinal Folds An 8-year-old active boy suffered a penetrating injury to his right eye. A temporal retinal perforation with an adherent blood clot about 4-disc diameter from the fovea was noted. Six weeks after the initial primary repair, a macular hole (MH) and retinal folds radiating from the penetrating site of the retina were found. Two months after the injury, the patient underwent a standard pars plana vitrectomy. Intraoperatively, the retinal folds still existed after creating a posterior hyaloid detachment and disappeared concurrently within the area of the internal limiting membrane peeling. Occlusion therapy was carried out after absorption of the intraocular gas. One year after the vitrectomy surgery, the MH remained closed with a visual acuity improving from 20/60 to 20/25 in his right eye. Our results suggest that vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling and sequential occlusion therapy can achieve both anatomical and functional improvement in a child suffering a penetrating injury with a MH and retinal folds.
case-report	COP325141	Bilateral Posterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy in a Patient with Severe Diabetic Ketoacidosis Bilateral Posterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy in a Patient with Severe Diabetic Ketoacidosis Purpose: To report a case of bilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy (PION) in a patient with severe diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Design: Observational case report. Participant: A 35-year-old male who suffered bilateral visual loss during a severe episode of DKA. Methods: Neuro-ophthalmological examination, neuroimaging consisting of a CT scan and MRI of the brain and orbits, as well as a MRA of brain vessels. Results: Bilateral PION was diagnosed in a 35-year-old male with no light perception vision, who emerged from a coma caused by severe DKA. The patient developed optic nerve pallor in both eyes 4 weeks after the initial examination. Visual acuity with no light perception in both eyes remained unchanged after 6 months’ follow-up. Conclusions: Severe DKA can be complicated by bilateral PION, resulting in total blindness.
case-report	COP325142	Oral Propranolol for Circumscribed Choroidal Hemangioma Oral Propranolol for Circumscribed Choroidal Hemangioma Introduction: Several therapeutic approaches have been developed to treat choroidal hemangioma. However, all these therapies are associated with a potential risk of damaging the overlying retina. Case Report: We report a case of circumscribed choroidal hemangioma (CCH) in a 59-year-old man refractory to laser treatment. Visual acuity was 20/200 and a serous macular detachment was present. The CCH was treated with oral propanolol, whereupon visual acuity improved to 20/20 and the macular detachment resolved without systemic or local adverse effects. Discussion: Propanolol is a β-blocker commonly used in cardiology that may induce endothelium vasoconstriction and inhibit endothelial proliferation. It has been shown to be effective in infantile facial hemangiomas, and proved safe and effective for the CCH in our patient. Further studies are needed to confirm our observation.
case-report	COP326062	Chronic Postoperative Endophthalmitis Caused by Actinomyces meyeri Chronic Postoperative Endophthalmitis Caused by Actinomyces meyeri We report a female patient who developed chronic endophthalmitis after an uneventful cataract surgery. Cultures of aqueous humor and a vitreous sample showed positivity for Actinomyces meyeri. Intense anterior segment inflammation and a less evident impairment of the patient’s posterior segment led us to treat her vigorously with pars plana vitrectomy combined with intraocular and topical antibiotics. The patient achieved a good recovery of vision without the need to remove the intraocular lens and to add systemic drugs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an intraocular infection caused by A. meyeri after small-incision clear corneal phacoemulsification.
case-report	COP326486	Corneal Cross-Linking for the Treatment of Keratoconus in a Patient with Ipsilateral Myelinated Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Corneal Cross-Linking for the Treatment of Keratoconus in a Patient with Ipsilateral Myelinated Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Keratoconus associated with myelinated retinal nerve fibers is not frequent and the relationship between the two pathologies is difficult to explain, therefore studies and further investigation are required. The etiology of each condition may suggest the role of genetic factors. Follow-up is important to evaluate the progression of keratoconus and myelination. Here we describe the unusual coexistence of keratoconus and ipsilateral myelinated retinal nerve fiber layer and, for the first time, the corneal cross-linking treatment in this condition.
case-report	COP326747	Serous Retinal Detachments Complicating Interferon-α and Ribavirin Treatment in Patients with Hepatitis C Serous Retinal Detachments Complicating Interferon-α and Ribavirin Treatment in Patients with Hepatitis C Purpose: To report the cases of two patients with chronic hepatitis C infection showing serous retinal detachments similar to Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease. Methods: We reviewed the clinical records of two patients who were diagnosed with VKH-like disease during combined interferon-α (IFNα) and ribavirin treatment. Results: Interruption of IFNα and ribavirin treatment in association with oral corticosteroids resulted in a favorable visual outcome in the case of diffuse retinal detachment (case 1). On the contrary, visual acuity did not improve when late cicatricial stage disease was already present (case 2). Conclusion: There is increasing evidence of a link between hepatitis C virus infection treated with pegylated IFNα-2b and the development of VKH-like disease. Knowing the potential side effects of IFNα and ribavirin administration is fundamentally important, as is the need to closely follow up those patients that need to undergo this treatment.
case-report	COP326918	Serous Macular Detachment Associated with Dome-Shaped Macula and Tilted Disc Serous Macular Detachment Associated with Dome-Shaped Macula and Tilted Disc Introduction: An entirely new type of staphyloma has been recently described as dome-shaped macula (DSM). It is characterized by an abnormal convex macular contour within the concavity of a posterior staphyloma. We found DSM associated with serous macular detachment (SMD) and tilted disc in two consecutive cases. Case Reports: Case 1: A 37-year-old female presented to our department because of sudden onset blurred vision in her right eye (OD). The best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 0.5 in both eyes. Funduscopy evidenced bilateral tilted disc associated with posterior staphyloma. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) demonstrated a DSM with SMD in her OD. After 15 months of follow-up, BCVA of her OD remained stable with chronic SMD. Case 2: A 32-year-old female presented to our department because of blurred vision in her OD. The BCVA was 0.4 in the OD and 1.0 in the left eye (OS). Bilateral tilted disc and posterior staphyloma were evidenced in the funduscopy. OCT demonstrated a bilateral DSM with SMD in her OD. After 45 months of follow-up, two further episodes of transient SMD were observed in her OD and seven in her OS. The final BCVA was 0.63 in the OD and 0.8 in the OS. Discussion: SMD associated with tilted disc constitutes a potential cause of subretinal fluid accumulation in myopic patients. OCT is essential for the detection of both SMD and DSM.
case-report	COP441694	Choroidal Neovascularization Associated with Punctate Inner Choroidopathy: Combination of Intravitreal Anti-VEGF and Systemic Immunosuppressive Therapy Choroidal Neovascularization Associated with Punctate Inner Choroidopathy: Combination of Intravitreal Anti-VEGF and Systemic Immunosuppressive Therapy Purpose: Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) associated with punctate inner choroidopathy (PIC) is a rare clinical entity, yet still a challenge for medical treatment. A case of a young myopic woman developing CNV secondary to unilateral PIC is presented. Clinical morphology, diagnostic procedure and follow-up are reported. Case Report: A 29-year-old woman presented with multiple yellowish dots at the posterior pole. No other signs of inflammation could be seen. Angiography with fluorescein yielded hyperfluorescent signals in the affected areas with a diffuse leak, and SD-OCT showed a slightly elevated retinal pigment epithelial layer, consistent with the diagnosis of PIC. Additionally a classic CNV was observed. Results: Anti-inflammatory therapy with local prednisolone acetate eye drops in combination with intravitreal injection of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, bevacizumab) yielded an increased best-corrected visual acuity. As CNV reappeared, systemic medication with prednisone and azathioprine in combination with two further intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF stabilized CNV and increased visual acuity again. Conclusion: Combined therapy of immunosuppression with intravitreal anti-VEGF injections can be considered as therapeutic strategy in the management of recurrent CNV associated with PIC.
case-report	COP441969	Vitamin A Deficiency Presenting with ‘Itchy Eyes' Vitamin A Deficiency Presenting with ‘Itchy Eyes' We present the case of an 88-year-old female living in metropolitan Melbourne, Australia who developed vitamin A deficiency manifesting as ‘itchy eyes' due to a bizarre dietary habit. Slit lamp examination revealed Bitot's spots and a subsequent vitamin A serum level test revealed severe deficiency. An electroretinogram showed grossly reduced a- and b-wave amplitudes consistent with generalised rod and cone dysfunction - these parameters showed marked improvement 5 months post supplementation. This case highlights the presence of vitamin A deficiency in the developed world and that a careful dietary history should be taken when assessing a patient complaining of ‘itchy eyes'. Timely diagnosis and treatment may result in dramatic resolution of symptoms and signs as well as prevention of serious morbidity.
case-report	COP442175	"Periarteriolar-Sparing Retinal Edema in Acute Central Retinal Artery Occlusion Periarteriolar-Sparing Retinal Edema in Acute Central Retinal Artery Occlusion A 56-year-old man was referred to our hospital about 48 h after sudden onset of painless central visual loss in his right eye (OD) on a winter morning. He had a more than 25-year history of systemic hypertension and smoking. Funduscopic observation showed striated retinal whitening in the macular region, faint cotton-wool patches around the optic disc, and segmental narrowing of the retinal arteries near the optic disc edge. Based on the pattern of onset and fundus findings, he was diagnosed with vasospastic acute central retinal artery occlusion OD, and a venous drip injection of prostaglandin E1 was started immediately. Optical coherence tomography showed bands of high and low density in the inner retina arranged alternately in the edematous area; the bands corresponded to edematous and nonedematous areas, respectively, and geographically to venules and arterioles, respectively. The best-corrected visual acuity of 0.03 at referral improved to 0.5, and the striated retinal edema and most cotton-wool patches resolved 1 month after onset. The oxygen pressure gradient in the capillary networks due to differences in the distance from the arterioles may be the mechanism of this unique periarteriolar-sparing retinal edema pattern."
case-report	COP442182	Sudden Visual Deterioration as the First Symptom of Chronic Kidney Failure Sudden Visual Deterioration as the First Symptom of Chronic Kidney Failure Purpose: We report here a unique case of a sudden loss of vision as the first symptom of an advanced chronic nephropathy. Methods and Results: A 25-year-old man was referred to the Department of Ophthalmology with sudden visual deterioration presumptively diagnosed as bilateral retinitis. The patient had never been under any medical care before and had never had any clinical signs of any chronic disease. He underwent an ophthalmic examination with optical coherence tomography (OCT). Based on the clinical features, OCT scans and systemic blood pressure (BP) assessment (225/145 mm Hg), the patient was definitely diagnosed with hypertensive retinopathy and choroidopathy due to hypertensive crisis. After urgent diagnostic procedures, the patient was diagnosed with a chronic kidney disease at stage 5 in the course of chronic glomerulonephritis. Immediately, a renal replacement therapy was started and the patient was qualified for renal transplantation. Conclusion: Adolescents with an unclear picture of retinal lesions, who have neither a history nor clinical signs of a systemic disease, should undergo careful systemic screening with BP assessment. A sudden deterioration of vision may be the first symptom of a previously undiagnosed severe systemic disease (very rare chronic) that requires immediate treatment.
case-report	COP442345	Age-Related True Exfoliation of the Lens Capsule: Phacoemulsification Surgery Results Age-Related True Exfoliation of the Lens Capsule: Phacoemulsification Surgery Results Historically associated with glassblowers, true exfoliation of the crystalline lens involves a splitting or delamination of the capsule. We reviewed the phacoemulsification records of a single surgeon for patients with true exfoliation of the lens capsule. The incidence in our series was 2.2% (6 in 278 cases). The average age was 85.0 years. All patients had successful phacoemulsification outcomes, which may have been due to accurate recognition of the condition and appropriate surgical planning. Our findings support the notion that true exfoliation may be more often associated with advanced age rather than infrared radiation.
case-report	COP442346	Simultaneous Single Dexamethasone Implant and Ranibizumab Injection in a Case with Active Serpiginous Choroiditis and Choroidal Neovascular Membrane Simultaneous Single Dexamethasone Implant and Ranibizumab Injection in a Case with Active Serpiginous Choroiditis and Choroidal Neovascular Membrane Intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents seem to be effective in choroidal neovascular membranes (CNV) in association with various entities of posterior uveitis. We herein report a 46-year-old woman who was treated with a simultaneous single intravitreal dexamethasone implant and ranibizumab administration for the treatment of unilateral extrafoveal CNV associated with an active serpiginous choroiditis. Simultaneously with the intravitreal therapy, oral mycophenolic acid (2 × 720 mg) was started, and oral cyclosporine (3 × 100 mg) was then added 2 months later. On the other hand, the fellow eye had been treated for subfoveal CNV but with an inactive disease 4 years previously and ended up with a final visual acuity of counting fingers despite treatment with a single session of photodynamic therapy and 3 subsequent intravitreal ranibizumab injections. Simultaneous administration of anti-VEGF agents and a dexamethasone implant can be a viable approach in eyes with CNV and active serpiginous choroiditis.
case-report	COP442437	Postoperative Endophthalmitis Caused by Staphylococcus haemolyticus following Femtosecond Cataract Surgery Postoperative Endophthalmitis Caused by Staphylococcus haemolyticus following Femtosecond Cataract Surgery A 53-year-old Caucasian man underwent femtosecond cataract surgery and then presented with pain and hand motions vision 1 day following surgery. Anterior segment examination showed a 2-mm-layered hypopyon, a well-centered intraocular lens in the sulcus, and an obscured view to the fundus. B-scan ultrasonography showed significant vitritis and that the retina was attached. A tap and an injection of vancomycin 1 mg per 0.1 ml and of ceftazidime 2.25 mg per 0.1 ml were performed. The tap eventually yielded culture results positive for Staphylococcus haemolyticus, which was sensitive to vancomycin. We report a case of endophthalmitis that occurred on postoperative day 1 following complicated cataract surgery. This is an uncommon bacterium that is not widely reported in the literature as a cause of endophthalmitis in the postoperative period. We urge clinicians to consider S. haemolyticus as an offending agent, especially when the infection presents very early and aggressively in the postoperative period.
case-report	COP442461	"Vitrectomy for Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy Associated with Klinefelter Syndrome Vitrectomy for Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy Associated with Klinefelter Syndrome Introduction: We encountered a patient with Klinefelter syndrome (KS) who experienced poor outcomes after vitrectomy for proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Case: A 44-year-old male with poorly controlled diabetes was diagnosed with KS by chromosome analysis. Ocular findings revealed severe PDR complicated with extensive preretinal hemorrhages and traction retinal detachment in his left eye, and pars plana vitrectomy was subsequently performed for treatment. Results: A clotting hemorrhage developed during surgery and proved difficult to control. Due to postoperative bleeding and redetachment, the vitrectomy was repeated. At the second operation, we performed a silicone oil tamponade; however, the retina was redetached under the silicone oil, and the light perception vision ultimately disappeared. Conclusion: The patient, despite showing increased blood coagulability due to diabetes, presented severe coagulopathy, likely related to KS. In patients with KS and severe PDR, the potential difficulty of vitrectomy should always be kept in mind."
case-report	COP442519	"Breast Cancer Metastasis Presenting as Conjunctival Chemosis Breast Cancer Metastasis Presenting as Conjunctival Chemosis A 72-year-old woman presented with a painful right eye. A few weeks before, she had noticed a red, swollen area in the conjunctiva of the same eye. On slit lamp examination, it appeared as chemosis and vascular injection; artificial tears were prescribed. A month later, a firm mass developed on the superotemporal orbital rim, in the area of the lacrimal gland. A CT scan revealed infiltrative structures in both the left and right orbit, with contrast staining in the right lacrimal gland and near the left optic nerve. A biopsy was taken of the conjunctival swelling as well as of the lacrimal gland. Both tissues showed infiltration with lobular breast carcinoma metastases."
case-report	COP442584	"Missed Diagnosis of an Intraorbital Foreign Body of Homemade Fireworks Origin: A Case Report Missed Diagnosis of an Intraorbital Foreign Body of Homemade Fireworks Origin: A Case Report Purpose: We report a rare case of traumatic injury to the eye caused by homemade fireworks in a Chinese juvenile patient with a metal ring left in the orbit after having been sutured at the Emergency Department. Methods: An 11-year-old boy presented with a traumatic injury to the right eye from homemade fireworks. Following initial assessment involving maxillofacial computed tomography (CT) and suturing at the Emergency Department, he was transferred to our department for further evaluation because of his poor sight 1 day later. On examination, a skin laceration beneath the right eyebrow was noted, but the superior orbit was not fully visible on the maxillofacial CT performed 1 day previously. Therefore, an orbital CT scan was carried out on the second day, which showed a hyperdense ring embedded in the superior border of the orbital wall; the ring was surgically removed. On postoperative day 7, a fundus examination revealed resolving vitreous hemorrhage, blunt traumatic retinal detachment, and a large retinal tear superior to the macula. The patient refused to take surgery for retinal detachment into consideration. Therefore, we opted for oral steroids and careful observation. Results: After 2 months' observation, the large retinal tear had healed and white fibrous scar tissue had developed, and the retinal detachment superior to the macula had reattached itself spontaneously. The patient's vision had further improved to 20/200. During 1 year of follow-up, he remained clinically stable. Conclusion: To avoid missing the diagnosis, a complete history of the mechanism of injury and accurate imaging still prove most useful. Complete removal of the foreign body by the emergency physician is necessary because of the ocular toxicity of an iron-containing foreign body. As evidenced by the current case, oral steroids and observation for a period of several months is a management of choice for traumatic retinal detachment and retinal tear superior to the macula associated with homemade fireworks in children."
case-report	COP442660	Hypertensive Retinopathy as the First Manifestation of Advanced Renal Disease in a Young Patient: Report of a Case Hypertensive Retinopathy as the First Manifestation of Advanced Renal Disease in a Young Patient: Report of a Case The purpose of this paper was to report the case of a 23-year-old patient suffering from bilateral acute visual loss who received the diagnosis of hypertensive retinopathy. After systemic evaluation, he was diagnosed with bilateral renal disease and chronic renal failure, requiring a kidney transplantation to manage the systemic illness, followed by gradual improvement of his visual acuity.
case-report	COP442742	A Case of Ampiginous Choroiditis A Case of Ampiginous Choroiditis Purpose: Presentation of a case report of a unilateral ampiginous choroiditis. Methods: This is an observational case report. Results: A 70-year-old woman was referred to us with unilateral scattered chorioretinal lesions. The multifocal pattern of the lesions and the angiographic features led to the diagnosis of ampiginous choroiditis. Conclusion: Ampiginous choroiditis is a primary inflammatory choriocapillaropathy with characteristics of both acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy and serpiginous choroiditis.
case-report	COP442744	Diffuse Anterior Retinoblastoma with Sarcoidosis-Like Nodule Diffuse Anterior Retinoblastoma with Sarcoidosis-Like Nodule Background: Retinoblastomas account for 4% of malignancies in children, 1-2% of which are diffuse infiltrating retinoblastomas. Diffuse anterior retinoblastoma is rare and does not involve the retina. Here, we report on a diffuse anterior retinoblastoma with large sarcoidosis-like nodules on the iris that were responsive to anti-inflammatory therapy. Case: We present a 6-year-old girl who had anterior uveitis with white nodules on the iris and posterior surface of the cornea in her right eye. The nodules initially responded well to anti-inflammatory treatment. However, anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) showed that the nodules gradually grew, shrinking the iris. We then collected the aqueous humor for diagnosis. A biopsy revealed clusters of small cells with a high nuclear-to-cytoplasm ratio with partial rosette formation. Therefore, we diagnosed diffuse anterior retinoblastoma without retinal involvement and performed enucleation of the right eye. The histopathology demonstrated undifferentiated cells similar to those seen on the biopsy, and tumor cells invaded the iris stroma, posterior surface of the cornea, ciliary body, and sclera. After the enucleation, she underwent chemotherapy and remains alive. Conclusion: A differential diagnosis of retinoblastoma should be considered when white nodules refractory to anti-inflammatory therapy occur in the eye, even in the absence of obvious retinal masses. AS-OCT findings are useful in assessing retinoblastoma.
case-report	COP446980	Role of Tractional Forces and Internal Limiting Membrane in Macular Hole Formation: Insights from Intraoperative Optical Coherence Tomography Role of Tractional Forces and Internal Limiting Membrane in Macular Hole Formation: Insights from Intraoperative Optical Coherence Tomography We report the case of a 69-year-old patient who underwent vitrectomy for vitreomacular traction (VMT) and developed a postoperative macular hole that was observed 1 week after surgery. The hole did not close by in-office fluid-gas exchange alone, but was achieved after repeat surgery with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling. Intraoperative OCT (iOCT) images from the first surgery revealed an occult macular hole that formed after VMT release. We discuss how iOCT findings provide insight into the role of the ILM in macular hole formation and emphasize the importance of carefully inspecting iOCT images in real time to avoid missing small but important findings.
case-report	COP447994	Decreased Vision as Initial Presenting Symptom of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: A Case Report Decreased Vision as Initial Presenting Symptom of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: A Case Report This case illustrates that hematologic disorders must be considered as a potentially life-threatening cause for vision loss. Proper laboratory workup and timely interdisciplinary approach are essential to ensure the best possible care for ophthalmic patients. Historically, before the use of bone marrow biopsy, the ophthalmologist was often asked to assist in the diagnosis of leukemia. Since ophthalmological symptoms may be the initial presenting signs of leukemia as highlighted in this case, the ophthalmogist is still of crucial importance.
case-report	COP447995	Swept-Source Optical Coherence Tomography Detecting Intraoperative Acute Descemet's Fold Formation Swept-Source Optical Coherence Tomography Detecting Intraoperative Acute Descemet's Fold Formation Background: To present an intraoperative acute Descemet’s fold formation using swept-source optical coherence tomography (SS-OCT) imaging. Case Report: A 67-year-old man complaining of reduced visual acuity in the left eye. A 25-gauge pars plana vitrectomy combined with phacoemulsification cataract surgery was performed to remove the vitreomacular traction. When hydro-sealing was performed, striae rapidly spread in the cornea. SS-OCT B-scan images performed on postoperative day 1 revealed a wavy Descemet’s membrane that might correspond to Descemet’s folds. Pairs of hypo- and hyperreflective narrow lesions running from the wavy Descemet’s membrane to almost half of the thickness of the whole cornea were observed. En face OCT imaging clearly showed the stromal fold, which continuously spread from the Descemet’s fold. Conclusion: The stromal fold might be due to the focal bulge of the stroma posteriorly caused by the rapid volume increase of the stroma which could push Descemet’s membrane posteriorly, thereby forming a wavy Descemet’s membrane layer.
case-report	COP448164	Solitary Fibrous Tumor in the Lacrimal Gland Fossa: A Case Report Solitary Fibrous Tumor in the Lacrimal Gland Fossa: A Case Report Solitary fibrous tumors (SFTs) are benign, spindle-cell tumors of mesenchymal origin that are usually seen in the superior orbital area in adults. We report a rare case of SFT in the lacrimal gland fossa that developed in a young female. A 25-year-old woman had a 6-month history of a progressive painless mass in the left upper eyelid accompanied by proptosis. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging showed an ovoid, demarcated mass with distinct margins in the lacrimal gland region without bone invasion. Excision biopsy with immunohistochemical study, specifically with positive signal transducer and activator of transcription 6, confirmed the diagnosis.
case-report	COP448211	"Equatorial Staphyloma Associated with Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Equatorial Staphyloma Associated with Neurofibromatosis Type 1 We report a case of a 38-year-old man who presented with a recently self-detected lump under his left eyebrow. Previous ophthalmological history was unremarkable except for unilateral high myopia (left eye) since childhood. The appearance of the left eye was seemingly normal; however, with the top lid pulled up on downward gaze, a dark brown bulge emerged. The bulge was 10 × 7 mm and approximately 4 mm in height, and was covered by the extended superior rectus muscle. The diagnosis of equatorial staphyloma was made after coronal T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the orbit revealed the dilatation of the vitreous cavity. Ocular movements were fully maintained and visual acuity was largely spared: 20/15 in the right eye without correction and 20/25 in the left eye with –10.00 spheres and –4.00 × 80 degrees cylinders. His past and family histories were unremarkable; however, small neurofibromas and café au lait spots all over his body led to the diagnosis of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). From this case, similar to previous reports, we suggest that manifestations of NF1 are extremely variable and unpredictable."
case-report	COP448427	Treatment of Retinitis Pigmentosa-Associated Cystoid Macular Oedema Using Intravitreal Aflibercept (Eylea) despite Minimal Response to Ranibizumab (Lucentis): A Case Report Treatment of Retinitis Pigmentosa-Associated Cystoid Macular Oedema Using Intravitreal Aflibercept (Eylea) despite Minimal Response to Ranibizumab (Lucentis): A Case Report Background: We present an interesting case of bilateral retinitis pigmentosa (RP)-associated cystoid macular oedema that responded on two separate occasions to intravitreal injections of aflibercept, despite previously demonstrating only minimal response to intravitreal ranibizumab. This unique case would support a trial of intravitreal aflibercept for the treatment of RP-associated cystoid macular oedema. Case Presentation: A 38-year-old man from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, presented to the UK with a 3-year history of bilateral RP-associated cystoid macular oedema. Previous treatment with topical dorzolamide, oral acetazolamide, and intravitreal ranibizumab had demonstrated only minimal reduction of cystoid macular oedema. Following re-confirmation of the diagnosis by clinical examination and optical coherence tomography imaging, bilateral loading doses of intravitreal aflibercept were given. Central macular thickness reduced and the patient returned to Dubai. After 6 months, the patient was treated with intravitreal ranibizumab due to re-accumulation of fluid and the unavailability of aflibercept in Dubai. Only minimal reduction of central macular thickness was observed. Once available in Dubai, intravitreal aflibercept was administered bilaterally with further reduction of central macular thickness observed. Visual acuity remained stable throughout. Conclusions: This is the first case report to demonstrate a reduction of RP-associated CMO following intravitreal aflibercept, despite inadequate response to ranibizumab on two separate occasions. Aflibercept may provide superior action to other anti-VEGF medications due to its intermediate size (115 kDa) and higher binding affinity. This is worthy of further investigation in a large prospective cohort over an extended time to determine the safety and efficacy of intravitreal aflibercept for use in this condition.
case-report	COP448730	In vivo Confocal Microscopy in Differentiating Ipilimumab-Induced Anterior Uveitis from Metastatic Uveal Melanoma In vivo Confocal Microscopy in Differentiating Ipilimumab-Induced Anterior Uveitis from Metastatic Uveal Melanoma This report aims to describe the facilitating role of in vivo confocal microscopy in differentiating inflammatory cells from a metastatic process in a patient with uveal melanoma and multiple systemic metastases who developed anterior uveitis while under ipilimumab treatment. A 43-year-old woman developed systemic metastases 11 months after treatment of amelanotic choroidal melanoma in her right eye with 30 Gy fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy. She first received temozolomide and then 4 cycles of ipilimumab 3 mg/kg/day. After the third cycle, severe anterior uveitis with coarse pigment clumps on the lens was seen in the left eye. Her left visual acuity declined from 20/20 to 20/80. Confocal microscopy revealed globular keratic precipitates with hyperreflective inclusions and endothelial blebs all suggestive of granulomatous uveitis. The uveitic reaction subsided after a 3-week course of topical corticosteroids, and her visual acuity was 20/20 again. Although uveal melanoma metastatic to the intraocular structures of the fellow eye is exceedingly rare and metastasis masquerading uveitis without any identifiable uveal lesion is even more unusual, it was still mandatory to rule out this distant possibility in our particular patient who already had widespread systemic metastases. Confocal microscopy was a useful complementary tool by identifying the inflammatory features of the keratic precipitates.
case-report	COP448943	"Sutureless 25-Gauge Pars Plana Vitrectomy Combined with Retropupillary Fixation of an Iris-Claw Intraocular Lens Sutureless 25-Gauge Pars Plana Vitrectomy Combined with Retropupillary Fixation of an Iris-Claw Intraocular Lens Background: The surgical case of a dropped intraocular lens inside the vitreous cavity constitutes a real challenge for the operating surgeon. Herein, we describe a case series where an alternative optical rehabilitation technique for late intraocular lens-bag complex dislocation has been used. Methods: A modern vitrectomy device was used to remove the capsule with the dropped intraocular lens using sutureless 25-gauge pars plana vitrectomy. To ensure a better aesthetic result, with faster patient recovery and a reduced number of operations, the whole procedure was performed during the same operating session; an iris-claw intraocular lens for aphakia was selected for implantation. The implant was passed behind the constricted iris with the concave surface facing it. The lens was grasped with the manufacturer’s holding forceps and fixed onto the posterior surface of the iris using the special enclavation needles. Results: We have operated 12 eyes in two different clinical centres successfully, with minimal intra- and/or postoperative complications. Conclusion: We believe that this is a viable solution for the visual rehabilitation of patients, who would otherwise need more than one operation for a lens exchange."
case-report	COP479729	The First Argentinian Family with Familial Amyloidosis of the Finnish Type The First Argentinian Family with Familial Amyloidosis of the Finnish Type Familial amyloidosis of the Finnish type or Meretoja syndrome is a rare autosomic dominant inherited systemic condition. It was first described by Meretoja in Finland in 1969. It is a disease produced by a single mutation in the gene coding for gelsolin, which generates an abnormal protein that cumulates in tissues and leads to various signs. Obtaining an early diagnosis can be challenging, as the first manifestations of the disease are ophthalmological and may only be seen with slit-lamp biomicroscopy. We present the first 3 cases diagnosed in Argentina, confirmed by genetic molecular testing.
case-report	COP479785	Use of Intravitreal Dexamethasone in a Case of Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy Use of Intravitreal Dexamethasone in a Case of Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy Nowadays there is no unique and well-established treatment for nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, despite being the main acute pathology that affects the optic nerve in the elderly population and often resulting in a significant loss of visual acuity. The effectiveness of oral steroids is still under debate in the international literature, although many studies show that patients treated with high doses of systemic corticosteroids have a significantly higher chance of improved visual acuity and visual fields. The authors propose an intravitreal dexamethasone injection/implant as initial and acute therapy. Compared to systemic corticosteroids, intravitreal dexamethasone has the advantage of avoiding any systemic side effects of steroids. On the other hand, a rise in intraocular pressure might occur, manageable with local antiglaucoma drugs, especially in patients at risk, and there is a risk of induced cataract. The pharmacodynamics of the intravitreal dexamethasone slow-release implant is characterized by a first step with high release concentrations and a second following phase with decreasing concentrations. Therefore, the use of emergency dexamethasone (high concentration) intravitreal injection is justified as a treatment after the first detection of an ischemic optic anterior neuropathy.
case-report	COP479813	Implantation of a Multifocal Toric Intraocular Lens after Radial Keratotomy and Cross-Linking with Hyperopia and Astigmatism Residues: A Case Report Implantation of a Multifocal Toric Intraocular Lens after Radial Keratotomy and Cross-Linking with Hyperopia and Astigmatism Residues: A Case Report Radial keratotomy is a refractive surgical technique, widely used in the 80s and early 90s to correct myopia and astigmatism, but now overcome by more recent laser techniques. Important consequences, often in patients with more than 45 years of age, are progressive hyperopic shift and/or an increase in corneal astigmatism, whose main cause seems to be an increase in the curvature radius of the central portion of the cornea. This seems to be due to radial keratotomy incisions – with the consequent need for cross-linking – intraocular pressure, and corneal biomechanical parameters. The authors propose phacoemulsification with a customized multifocal toric intraocular lens implantation to correct the induced shift and hyperopic astigmatism. A decent postoperative visual acuity was observed with good patient satisfaction. A specific protocol must be applied to optimize the correct diagnosis, presurgical evaluation and postsurgical outcomes that are to be maintained over time, without regressions.
case-report	COP480069	Optical Coherence Tomography Evolution in a Case of X-Linked Juvenile Retinoschisis: 15 Years of Follow-Up Optical Coherence Tomography Evolution in a Case of X-Linked Juvenile Retinoschisis: 15 Years of Follow-Up Purpose: We present the evolution of X-linked juvenile retinoschisis (XLRS) in a male patient using optical coherence tomography (OCT) with a long-term follow-up time of 15 years. Case Description: A 10-year-old male patient presented at the Medical Retina Department of our hospital complaining for blurred vision in both eyes. At the initial presentation in 2001, his best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 6/12 in both eyes on the Snellen chart. Based on clinical and OCT findings, the diagnosis of XLRS was made, and it was confirmed by genetic testing. No treatment was performed, but the patient was regularly examined. His BCVA and OCT findings remained relatively stable from 2001 to 2012, when BCVA decreased to 6/18 and 6/24 in the right and left eye, respectively. In 2016, his BCVA was 6/24 and 6/36 in right and left eye, respectively, while OCT depicted significant macular thinning, accompanied by irregularities of the foveal contour in both eyes. Conclusion: Patients with XLRS should be monitored regularly to evaluate the progression of the disease and manage the potential complications.
case-report	COP480723	"Bullous Exudative Retinal Detachment after Retinal Pattern Scan Laser Photocoagulation in Diabetic Retinopathy Bullous Exudative Retinal Detachment after Retinal Pattern Scan Laser Photocoagulation in Diabetic Retinopathy Laser retinal photocoagulation is the gold standard treatment for diabetic retinopathy. We describe 3 cases in which bullous exudative retinal detachment (ERD) developed after pattern scan laser photocoagulation (PASCAL) in diabetic retinopathy. ERD spontaneously resolved in all 3 cases with various visual courses. This case series highlights 2 key points: first, ERD can occur regardless of gender, age, glycemic control, or vitreous status and despite a moderate number of laser shots, even with PASCAL; second, ERD in nonvitrectomized eyes may cause irreversible visual loss, even if the ERD resolves within 1 month."
case-report	COP480728	Corneal Collagen Cross-Linking Combined with an Artiflex Iris-Fixated Anterior Chamber Phakic Intraocular Lens Implantation in a Patient with Progressive Keratoconus Corneal Collagen Cross-Linking Combined with an Artiflex Iris-Fixated Anterior Chamber Phakic Intraocular Lens Implantation in a Patient with Progressive Keratoconus We present here the case of a 24-year-old male who experienced progressive keratoconus and vision loss which adversely affected his ability to carry out everyday tasks. This landed him in the Hashmanis Hospital for consultation. He had a preoperative best corrected visual acuity of 6/12. He underwent multiple Oculus Pentacam examinations, which showed progressive keratoconus. Corneal collagen cross-linking (CXL) was performed to stabilize his cornea and, subsequently, an Artiflex anterior chamber iris-fixated phakic intraocular lens (ACIF-PIOL) was implanted to alleviate his refractive errors. The patient achieved a postoperative uncorrected visual acuity of 6/12. This report shows that CXL combined with ACIF-PIOL can be safe and effective in those with progressive keratoconus.
case-report	COP493384	Lipemia Retinalis, Macular Edema, and Vision Loss in a Diabetic Patient with a History of Type IV Hypertriglyceridemia and Pancreatitis Lipemia Retinalis, Macular Edema, and Vision Loss in a Diabetic Patient with a History of Type IV Hypertriglyceridemia and Pancreatitis Background: Lipemia retinalis is a rare but known complication of elevated serum triglycerides. This case describes the clinical course of a diabetic patient who presented with lipemia retinalis and macular edema, which responded to systemic and local treatments. Case Report: A 40-year-old female with a history of type II diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridemia, and pancreatitis presented with decreased vision in the left eye. She had peripapillary and macular edema, intraretinal hemorrhages, and prominent exudates in the setting of lipemia retinalis due to type IV hypertriglyceridemia. She was treated with serial intravitreal bevacizumab injections for macular edema and systemic lipid lowering therapy, and her visual acuity improved back to baseline. Conclusions: In the setting of lipemia retinalis and hypertriglyceridemia, the current patient developed macular edema and vision loss. The macular edema was treated with intravitreal injections of bevacizumab, and the patient experienced a rapid recovery of visual acuity.
case-report	COP493571	"Development of a Donor Tissue Holding Technique for Descemet’s Membrane Endothelial Keratoplasty Using a 25-Gauge Graft Manipulator Development of a Donor Tissue Holding Technique for Descemet’s Membrane Endothelial Keratoplasty Using a 25-Gauge Graft Manipulator Purpose: To report a modified surgical technique called the “donor tissue holding technique for Descemet’s membrane endothelial keratoplasty (DMEK)” using a newly developed 25-gauge graft manipulator. Methods: Six consecutive patients exhibiting endothelial dysfunction were enrolled and treated by DMEK. In brief, after insertion of a DMEK donor into the anterior chamber, the edge of the roll was grasped using a graft manipulator and this grasp was maintained throughout the centering and opening of the roll (holding technique). The following parameters were evaluated in comparison to the previous 10 consecutive DMEK cases in which the no touch technique was used: time of graft unfolding, incidence of intra-/postoperative complications, and best spectacle-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and endothelial cell density (ECD) 6 months after the procedure. Results: In both technique groups, neither intra- nor postoperative complications were noted in any case. No differences were observed between the two groups in postoperative BCVA (p = 0.88). Also, no differences were observed between the two groups in postoperative ECD (holding technique group: 2,108.3 cells/mm2, no touch technique group: 1,491.7 cells/mm2) (p = 0.08) Most notably, the time of graft unfolding prior to filling with air was significantly reduced in the holding technique group (305.5 s) compared to that of the no touch technique group (1,310.0 s; p = 0.01). Conclusions: This donor tissue holding technique enabled rapid and safe DMEK in a reproducible manner, even in Asian eyes with shallow anterior chambers with high vitreous pressure."
case-report	COP494713	Corneal Toxicity Induced by ABT-414 Therapy for Glioblastoma Multiforme: A Case Report Corneal Toxicity Induced by ABT-414 Therapy for Glioblastoma Multiforme: A Case Report Background: To describe a case of corneal toxicity associated with the use of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor ABT-414 in the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme. Case Presentation: Case report of a 56-year-old male with glioblastoma multiforme who developed mild painless blurred vision after systemic treatment with the investigational EGFR inhibitor ABT-414. The patient had best corrected visual acuity of 20/60 right eye and 20/50 left eye. Ophthalmic examination revealed corneal toxicity with whorl-like opacities in the inferior interpalpebral cornea. The patient was treated with topical fluoromethalone and lifitegrast, and his ocular symptoms as well as the corneal findings improved. Conclusions: The systemic use of EGFR inhibitor ABT-414 may be associated with corneal toxicity and the effects are reversible with treatment.
review-article	CPB303055	ATP Depletion-induced Actin Rearrangement Reduces Cell Adhesion via p38 MAPK-HSP27 Signaling in Renal Proximal Tubule Cells ATP Depletion-induced Actin Rearrangement Reduces Cell Adhesion via p38 MAPK-HSP27 Signaling in Renal Proximal Tubule Cells Ischemia causes desquamation of proximal tubular epithelial cells leading to acute renal failure. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the detachment of proximal tubule cells remain unknown. In this study, we reported that ATP depletion resulted in actin polymerization, a shift of filamentous actin from web-like structure to fragmented parallel stress fibers, followed by a reduction of cellular adhesion ability. The pre-treatment with Jasplakinolide, an actin stabilizer, prevented ATP depletion-induced actin polymerization and reduction of cell adhesion, indicating that the cytoskeleton reorganization decreased the cellular adhesion ability. Furthermore, the ATP depletion markedly increased the levels of p38MAPK and HSP27 phosphorylation with enhanced translocation of phosphorylated HSP27 from cytoskeleton to cytoplasm. The inhibition of p38MAPK by SB203580 blocked the ATP depletion to induce HSP27 phosphorylation and actin polymerization. These findings suggest that ischemia remodels filamentous actin leading to desquamation of proximal tubular epithelial cells through p38 MAPK-HSP27 signaling.
research-article	CPB343382	USP2-45 Represses Aldosterone Mediated Responses by Decreasing Mineralocorticoid Receptor Availability USP2-45 Represses Aldosterone Mediated Responses by Decreasing Mineralocorticoid Receptor Availability Background/Aims: Ligand activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) induces several post-translational modifications (PTMs). Among the different PTMs, MR is known to be dynamically ubiquitylated with impact on its stability and transcriptional activity. Previously, we have shown that MR is monoubiquitylated at the basal state and that aldosterone stimulation induces monoubiquitylation removal prompting polyubiquitin-dependent destabilization of the receptor and proteasomal degradation. This study investigated the role of the aldosterone induced ubiquitin-specific protease USP2-45 on the ubiquitylation state of MR. Methods: Renal epithelial cells M1 were co-transfected with MR with or without wild-type or inactive USP2-45. The association of MR with USP2-45 or TSG101 as well as MR ubiquitylation state were determined by immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting. MR transcriptional activity was assessed via a luciferase reporter gene. Results: We show that USP2-45 is able to bind MR and, similarly to aldosterone, induce MR monoubiquitylation removal, disruption of MR/TSG101 association and destabilization of MR at protein level. Conclusion: This study provides a novel role for USP2-45 by playing a pivotal role in the regulation of the ubiquitylation state of MR and reveals the existence of a negative feedback loop for limiting the aldosterone induced response.
research-article	CPB350062	Effect of Hexavalent Chromium on Electron Leakage of Respiratory Chain in Mitochondria Isolated from Rat Liver Effect of Hexavalent Chromium on Electron Leakage of Respiratory Chain in Mitochondria Isolated from Rat Liver Background/Aims: In the present study, we explored reactive axygen species (ROS) production in mitochondria, the mechanism of hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) hepatotoxicity, and the role of protection by GSH. Methods: Intact mitochondria were isolated from rat liver tissues and mitochondrial basal respiratory rates of NADH and FADH2 respiratory chains were determined. Mitochondria were treated with Cr(VI), GSH and several complex inhibitors. Mitochondria energized by glutamate/malate were separately or jointly treated with Rotenone (Rot), diphenyleneiodonium (DPI) and antimycinA (Ant), while mitochondria energized by succinate were separately or jointly treated with Rot, DPI ‚ thenoyltrifluoroacetone (TTFA) and Ant. Results: Cr(VI) concentration-dependently induced ROS production in the NADH and FADH2 respiratory chain in liver mitochondria. Basal respiratory rate of the mitochondrial FADH2 respiratory chain was significantly higher than that of NADH respiratory chain. Hepatic mitochondrial electron leakage induced by Cr(VI) from NADH respiratory chain were mainly from ubiquinone binding sites of complex I and complex III. Conclusion: Treatment with 50µM Cr(VI) enhances forward movement of electrons through FADH2 respiratory chain and leaking through the ubiquinone binding site of complex III. Moreover, the protective effect of GSH on liver mitochondria electron leakage is through removing excess H2O2 and reducing total ROS.
research-article	CPB350070	Cholera Toxin Suppresses Expression of Ubiquitin Editing Enzyme A20 and Enhances Transcytosis Cholera Toxin Suppresses Expression of Ubiquitin Editing Enzyme A20 and Enhances Transcytosis Background: The ubiquitin editing enzyme A20 plays an important role in maintaining the homeostasis in the body Microbe-derived adjuvants are commonly used in animal models of intestinal allergy. Objective: This study aims to investigate the role of cholera toxin-induced A20 suppression in compromising intestinal barrier function. Methods: Human intestinal epithelial cells were cultured into monolayers as an in vitro epithelial barrier model. Ovalbumin (OVA) was used as a specific allergen to test the degrading capability of intestinal epithelial cells for the endocytic allergens. The fusion of endosomes and lysosomes in epithelial cells was observed by immunocytochemistry. The antigenicity of OVA was tested by T cell proliferation assay. Results: A20 was detectable in the intestinal cell lines and mouse intestinal epithelialum. A20 was required in the degradation of endocytic allergens in HT-29 cells. The allergen, OVA, could pass through A20-deficient HT-29 monolayer barrier. Exposure to microbial adjuvant, cholera toxin, suppressed the expression of A20 in HT-29 cells, which compromised the epithelial barrier function. Conclusion: The microbial product, cholera toxin, interferes with the expression of A20 in intestinal epithelial cells, which compromises the intestinal epithelial barrier function.
meta-analysis	CPB366352	"High Leptin Level is an Independent Risk Factor of Endometrial Cancer: A Meta-Analysis High Leptin Level is an Independent Risk Factor of Endometrial Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Previous studies suggested that high leptin level might increase risk of endometrial cancer, but available data were conflicting and whether high leptin level was an independent risk factor of endometrial cancer was still unclear. Therefore, a meta-analysis was performed to assess whether high leptin level was an independent risk factor of endometrial cancer. Methods: PubMed, Web of Science, and Embase databases were searched for epidemiological studies published up to June 26, 2014. The pooled risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence interval (95%CI) was used to assess the association between leptin level and risk of endometrial cancer. Results: Six studies with a total of 3136 individuals were finally included into the meta-analysis. Meta-analysis of total 6 studies showed that high leptin level was associated with increased risk of endometrial cancer (RR = 2.55, 95%CI 1.91-3.41, P &lt; 0.001). After adjusting for confounding factors, high leptin level was also associated with increased risk of endometrial cancer (RR =1.59, 95%CI 1.27-1.98, P &lt; 0.001). Sensitivity analysis proved the stability of the pooled estimates. The RR of endometrial cancer was 1.10 (95%CI, 1.03-1.18, P = 0.005) per 5 ng/mL increment in leptin levels. There was no obvious risk of publication bias (P Egger = 0.54). Conclusion: Our findings suggest that high leptin level is an independent risk factor of endometrial cancer. More prospective studies are needed to further confirm the association in the future."
meta-analysis	CPB369750	Altered MiRNA Expression in Gastric Cancer: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Altered MiRNA Expression in Gastric Cancer: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Aberrant microRNA expression has the potential to be used for early diagnosis of gastric cancer or to predict survival and treatment response. This study performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of altered miRNAs in gastric cancer in order to assess the use of miRNAs as novel biomarkers for early detection and prognosis prediction of gastric cancer. Methods: We retrieved published articles from the PubMed online database and obtained different sets of data on miRNAs expression profiling in gastric cancer and highlighted the most frequently dysregulated miRNAs in gastric cancer. We then extracted studies that used quantitative RT-PCR and then pooled them together by using meta-disc software (version 1.4). Results: We found that there were 47 aberrantly expressed miRNAs in gastric cancer (29 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated) that were most frequently reported in the literature. In publications that provided information on specific miRNA expression vs. diagnostic value, the pooled data showed good sensitivity and specificity as well as high levels of overall accuracy. However, specimen types could be a factor that introduces substantial heterogeneity. Published studies also showed association of altered miRNA expression with clinicopathological data from gastric cancer patients. Conclusion: Thus, various miRNAs are differentially expressed in gastric cancer and some of them could be further evaluated as biomarkers for early diagnosis of gastric cancer and prediction of prognosis or treatment response.
meta-analysis	CPB373943	"Prognostic Role of Tissue and Circulating MicroRNA-200c in Malignant Tumors: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Prognostic Role of Tissue and Circulating MicroRNA-200c in Malignant Tumors: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Recently, many studies have shown that microRNAs (miRNA) exhibit altered expression in various cancers and may serve as prognostic biomarkers. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the prognostic role of miR-200c expression in different cancers. Methods: Studies were recruited by searching PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library (last search update was May 2014) and assessed by further quality evaluation. Results: A total of 25 studies dealing with various carcinomas were identified for systematic review. Among them, 18 studies were ultimately included in the meta-analysis. Our results indicated that the expression of tissue miR-200c was not associated with OS and PFS in various carcinomas; however, downregulation of tissue miR-200c did predict poor OS of patients with stage I disease (HR=0.41, 95% CI 0.25-0.68, P=0.001). Furthermore, overexpression of blood miR-200c was significantly related to poor OS and PFS (HR=3.07 95% CI 1.58-5.96 P=0.001, HR=2.26 95% CI 1.66-3.08 P&lt;0.001, respectively), especially in patients with advanced disease. Conclusion: This systematic review and meta-analysis clarified that low expression of miR-200c in primary tissue was significantly associated with poor survival in cancer patients at early stage, whereas a high level of blood miR-200c predicted poor prognosis in patients with advanced tumors."
meta-analysis	CPB374007	"Serum 25-Hydroxyvitamin D Levels and Prognosis in Hematological Malignancies: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Serum 25-Hydroxyvitamin D Levels and Prognosis in Hematological Malignancies: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels proved to be associated with prognosis of patients with colorectal cancer or breast cancer, but its prognostic role in hematological malignancies was still unclear. A systematic review and meta-analysis was performed to comprehensively evaluate the association between serum 25(OH)D levels and prognosis of patients with hematological malignancies. Methods: We searched Pubmed, Embase, Web of Science, and Google Scholar for studies evaluating the association between serum 25(OH)D levels and prognosis of patients with hematological malignancies. The hazard ratios (HR) with 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) for overall survival (OS) or relapse-free survival (RFS) were pooled using meta-analysis. Results: Seven studies with a total of 2,643 patients with hematological cancer were finally included into the meta-analysis. Overall, compared with normal serum 25(OH)D levels, low serum 25(OH)D levels were significantly associated with both poorer OS (HR = 1.85, 95% CI 1.54-2.23, P &lt;0.001) and poorer RFS (HR = 1.45, 95% CI 1.25 to 1.70, P &lt;0.001) in hematological malignancies. Subgroup analysis further showed that low serum 25(OH)D levels were significantly associated with poorer OS and RFS in both lymphoma and leukemia. Conclusion: Low serum 25(OH)D levels are significantly associated with poorer prognosis in patients with hematological malignancies including lymphoma and leukemia."
meta-analysis	CPB374072	"Vitamin D and Lung Cancer Risk: A Comprehensive Review and Meta-Analysis Vitamin D and Lung Cancer Risk: A Comprehensive Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aim: Vitamin D has been suggested to have important roles against cancer development. There were several published studies on the association between vitamin D and lung cancer risk, but not conclusive results were available. Methods: To clarify the role of vitamin D in lung carcinogenesis, we performed a comprehensive review of the literature and a meta-analysis to evaluate the association of serum vitamin D levels and dietary vitamin D intake with lung cancer risk. Twelve studies (9 prospective cohort and 3 nested case-control studies) with a total of 288,778 individuals were included. The summary relative risk (RR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) was used to assess lung cancer risk. Results: Meta-analysis of total 12 studies showed that RR for the association of high vitamin D status with lung cancer was 0.84 (95%CI 0.78-0.90, P &lt; 0.001). The RR of lung cancer for the highest versus lowest quintile of serum vitamin D levels was 0.83 (95%CI 0.77-0.90, P &lt; 0.001). The RR of lung cancer for the highest versus lowest quintile of vitamin D intake was 0.89 (95%CI 0.74-1.06, P = 0.184). Conclusion: Current data suggest an inverse association between serum vitamin D and lung cancer risk. Further studies are needed to investigate the effect of vitamin D intake on lung cancer risk and to evaluate whether vitamin D supplementation can prevent lung cancer."
meta-analysis	CPB430290	EUS-Guided FNA for Diagnosis of Pancreatic Cystic Lesions: a Meta-Analysis EUS-Guided FNA for Diagnosis of Pancreatic Cystic Lesions: a Meta-Analysis Background: Preoperative diagnosis of pancreatic cystic lesions (PCLs) must be reliable as the current standard treatment, major or total pancreatectomy, dramatically affects quality of life. Additionally, early diagnosis of malignancy is essential to an improved prognosis. The diagnostic accuracy of fluid analysis using endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) has been demonstrated in pancreatic solid lesions. The utility of this technique in the diagnosis of PCLs is still unknown. Methods: A comprehensive search was performed in multiple databases. Studies differentiating benign and malignant PCLs via EUS-FNA were included in this meta-analysis. The quality of diagnostic accuracy studies (QUADAS) was adopted to evaluate the selected studies. Pooled sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratio, diagnostic odds ratio, and summary receiver operating characteristic (sROC) curve analyses were conducted. Two main classification types of malignancy were characterized and analyzed. We also generated a subgroup analysis of available clinical factors. Publication bias was evaluated by Begg's and Egger's tests. Results: Sixteen studies containing 1024 subjects have been published. The pooled sensitivity for malignant cytology according to classification 1 was 0.51 (95% CI, 0.45-0.58), and pooled specificity was 0.94 (95% CI, 0.92-0.96). When the detected PCLs were identified as classification 2, suspicious malignancy or potential malignancy, sensitivity and specificity were similar, 0.52 (95% CI, 0.46-0.57) and 0.97 (95% CI, 0.95-0.98) respectively. Conclusion: This meta-analysis demonstrates that EUS-FNA is a reliable clinical tool for the diagnosis of PCLs. However, a more accurate algorithm is needed to reduce various biases and to improve the sensitivity of EUS-FNA in the detection of malignant PCLs.
meta-analysis	CPB430327	"Adiponectin and Endometrial Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Adiponectin and Endometrial Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: This study evaluates the association between serum adiponectin concentrations and the risk of endometrial cancer through a comprehensive meta-analysis of currently available clinical data. Methods: PubMed, Embase, the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database and the Science Citation Index (ISI Web of Science) were searched for studies that examined the association between blood adiponectin concentrations and the risk of endometrial cancer. Data from studies that met the inclusion criteria were systematically reviewed, and pooled analyses were performed according to the guidelines of Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies in Epidemiology and PRIMSA. Results: Eight case-control studies (including 1257 endometrial cancer patients and 2008 controls) and four nested case-control studies (including 659 endometrial cancer patients and 1398 controls) were included. We found that serum adiponectin level was inversely correlated with the risk of endometrial cancer development after pooling the case-control studies (OR = 0.50, 95% CI: 0.39-0.60; P &lt; 0.001). However, meta-analysis of nested case-control studies thus far did not support a broad linkage between serum adiponectin level and endometrial cancer, although a correlation may exist in the subgroup of postmenopausal women (OR=0.81, 95%CI: 0.65-1.00; P=0.060), particularly in postmenopausal women without current hormone replacement therapy (OR = 0.62, 95% CI: 0.44-0.86; P = 0.004). Conclusions: Meta-analysis of currently available clinical evidence supports the association between high serum adiponectin concentration and reduced risk of endometrial cancer development, particularly in the group of postmenopausal women without current hormone replacement therapy. However, additional studies with prospective design are required to fully support this linkage."
meta-analysis	CPB430382	"Circulating Tumor Cells for Predicting the Prognostic of Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Meta Analysis Circulating Tumor Cells for Predicting the Prognostic of Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Meta Analysis Background/Aims: The prognostic value of circulating tumor cells (CTC) detected in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients is currently under debate. We conducted a meta-analysis of available studies to assess its prognostic value for patients diagnosed with HCC. Methods: Medline, Ovid Database, Embase, The Science Citation Index, and Cochrane library, search was conducted on all studies reporting the outcomes of interest. The studies were set up according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Using a random-effects model, meta-analysis was performed using hazard ratio (HR), risk ratio (RR) and their 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) as effect measures. Heterogeneity of the studies was tested for each pooled analysis. Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were also performed. Results: twenty-three published studies that matched the selection criteria were included in this meta-analysis. CTC positivity was significantly associated with Relapse free survival (RFS) (HR 3.03, 95% CI: [1.89-4.86]; p&lt;0.00001) and Overall survival (OS) (HR 2.45, 95% CI: [1.73-3.48]; p&lt;0.00001). CTC positivity were also significantly associated with TNM Stage (RR 1.30, 95% CI: [1.02-1.65]; p=0.03), Tumor size (RR 1.36, 95% CI: [1.09-1.69]; p=0.006), Vascular invasion (RR 1.99, 95% CI: [1.43-2.77]; p&lt;0.0001), Portal vein tumor thrombus (RR 1.73, 95% CI: [1.42-2.11]; p=0.0001), Serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level (RR 2.05, 95% CI: [1.18-3.54]; p=0.01). Conclusion: CTC positivity indicates poor prognosis in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, and associated with poor clinicopathologic parameters."
meta-analysis	CPB438523	"Prognostic Role of Tumor-Infiltrating Lymphocytes in Lung Cancer: a Meta-Analysis Prognostic Role of Tumor-Infiltrating Lymphocytes in Lung Cancer: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: The role of Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the prognosis of patients with lung cancer is still controversial. We performed a meta-analysis to evaluate the prognostic role of TILs in lung cancer. Methods: Studies were recruited by searching PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library and assessed by further quality evaluation. The pooled hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to investigate the association between TIL subsets and lung cancer patients' outcome. Results: A total of 29 articles including 8,600 patients were enrolled into the meta-analysis. Our results indicated that high level of CD8+ cells infiltration in tumor stroma (TS) or tumor nest (TN) was associated with better OS in lung cancer patients (HR = 0.76, 95% CI 0.62-0.93, P = 0.006; HR = 0.80, 95% CI 0.67-0.96; P = 0.018, respectively). Similar results could be also observed in CD3+ T cells infiltration. High CD4+ T lymphocytes infiltration in TS was explicitly accompanied by better OS (HR = 0.65, 95% CI 0.46-0.91; P = 0.013), rather than in TN. In contrast, high density of FOXP3+ T cells infiltration in TS showed a poor PFS (HR = 2.67, 95% CI, 1.74-4.08, P &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: This meta-analysis clarified that high level of CD8+ and CD3+ T cells infiltration in TS or TN, and high CD4+ T lymphocytes infiltration in TS showed better OS in lung cancer patients, whereas high density of FOXP3+ T cells infiltration in TS could be recognized as a negative prognostic factor."
meta-analysis	CPB438534	"Vitamin D Deficiency and Increased Risk of Bladder Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis Vitamin D Deficiency and Increased Risk of Bladder Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Vitamin D status in relation to bladder carcinoma risk was still inconsistent. This study was carried out to evaluate the relationship between vitamin D status and bladder carcinoma risk through a meta-analysis approach. Methods: Pubmed, Web of Science, CNKI, and Embase were searched systemically to find eligible studies from the earliest available date to April 16, 2015. The search terms “vitamin D”, “25-hydroxyvitamin D”, “bladder cancer” or “bladder carcinoma” were used to retrieve relevant studies. The exposure of interest was intake of vitamin D or serum vitamin D levels, and the outcome of interest was bladder carcinoma incidence or mortality. The pooled risk ratio (RR) values and their 95%CIs were calculated through meta-analysis. Results: Seven studies with a total of 62,141 participants met the inclusion criteria and were finally included into the meta-analysis. There was no heterogeneity among those included studies (I2 = 0%, P = 0.53). The pooled RR of bladder carcinoma for the lowest category versus the highest category of vitamin D was 1.34 (95% CI 1.17-1.53, P &lt; 0.0001). Sensitivity analysis by omitting one study by turns showed all the pooled RRs were statistically significant. Meta-analysis of 5 studies reporting outcomes of serum vitamin D levels also showed that the low serum vitamin D level was associated with increased risk of bladder carcinoma (RR = 1.32, 95%CI 1.15-1.52, P = 0.0001). No obvious risk of publication bias was observed. Conclusion: Vitamin D deficiency is associated with increased risk of bladder carcinoma in present study."
meta-analysis	CPB438574	Schwann Cells Transplantation Improves Locomotor Recovery in Rat Models with Spinal Cord Injury: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Schwann Cells Transplantation Improves Locomotor Recovery in Rat Models with Spinal Cord Injury: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Schwann cells (SCs) which were demonstrated to be responsible for axonal myelination and ensheathing are widely studied and commonly used for cell transplantation to treat spinal cord injury (SCI). We performed this meta-analysis to summarize the effects of SCs versus controls for locomotor recovery in rat models of traumatic SCI. Methods: Studies of the BBB scores after transplantation of SCs were searched out from Pubmed, Cochrane Library Medline databases and analyzed by Review Manager 5.2.5. Results: Thirteen randomized controlled animal trials were selected with 283 rats enrolled. The studies were divided to different subgroups by different models of SCI, different cell doses for transplantation, different sources of SCs and different transplantation ways. The pooled results of this meta-analysis suggested that SCs transplantation cannot significantly improve the locomotor recovery at a short time after intervention (1 week after transplantation) in both impacted and hemi-sected SCI models. However, at a longer time after intervention (3, 5-7 and over 8 weeks after transplantation), significant improvement of BBB score emerged in SCs groups compared with control groups. Subgroup analyses revealed that SCs transplantation can significantly promote locomotor recovery regardless of in high or low doses of cells, from different sources (isolated from sciatic nerves or differentiated from bone marrow stromal cells(BMSCs)) and with or without scaffolding. Conclusion: SCs seem to demonstrate substantial beneficial effects on locomotor recovery in a widely-used animal models of SCI.
meta-analysis	CPB438614	"Telomere Length as a Prognostic Factor for Overall Survival in Colorectal Cancer Patients Telomere Length as a Prognostic Factor for Overall Survival in Colorectal Cancer Patients Background/Aims: The stabilization of telomere length has important roles in the carcinogenesis of colorectal cancer. A systemic review and meta-analysis of published studies was performed to assess the prognostic role of telomere length in colorectal cancer. Methods: Pubmed and Embase were searched for eligible studies on the association between telomere length and overall survival in colorectal cancer patients. The pooled hazard ratio (HR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) was calculated using fixed-effects or random-effects model according to the magnitude of between-study heterogeneity. Results: Seven individual studies with a total of 956 colorectal cancer patients were included. Long telomere length in cancer tissues was marginally associated with poorer overall survival (Random-effects HR = 1.85, 95% 0.90 to 3.83, P = 0.09). When using studies with adjusted estimates, long telomere length in cancer tissues was independently and significantly associated with poorer overall survival (Fixed-effects HR = 2.70, 95% 1.51 to 4.84, P = 0.001). However, short telomere length in peripheral blood leukocytes was independently and significantly associated with poorer overall survival (Fixed-effects HR = 2.01, 95% 1.46 to 2.77, P &lt; 0.001). Conclusions: There is some evidence for telomere length as a prognostic factor for overall survival in colorectal cancer patients. More studies with large number of participants are needed to further assess the prognostic significance of telomere length in colorectal cancer patients."
meta-analysis	CPB438643	"Elevated Serum Concentration of Chitinase 3-Like 1 is an Independent Prognostic Biomarker for Poor Survival in Lung Cancer Patients Elevated Serum Concentration of Chitinase 3-Like 1 is an Independent Prognostic Biomarker for Poor Survival in Lung Cancer Patients Background/Aims: The chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1) has an important role in cancer progression, and high CHI3L1 expression is associated with the development and progression of cancers. Previous studies had been controversial with respect to the association between CHI3L1 expression and lung cancer prognosis. Thus, we performed a meta-analysis to investigate the prognostic value of CHI3L1 expression in lung cancer. Methods: We searched Pubmed, Embase, and Wanfang databases to identify eligible studies. Overall survival and disease free survival were collected from included studies. Pooled hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence interval (95%CI) were calculated to estimate the association. Seven studies comprising 911 lung cancer patients were included in this meta-analysis. Results: The results showed high CHI3L1 expression was independently associated with poorer overall survival in lung cancer patients (HR = 1.71, 95%CI 1.24-2.37, P = 0.001). Subgroup analysis by histological type showed that high CHI3L1 expression was independently associated with poorer overall survival in both non small-cell lung cancer patients (HR = 2.23,95%CI 1.43-3.47, P &lt; 0.001) and small-cell lung cancer patients (HR = 1.45, 95%CI 1.06-2.00, P = 0.021). In addition, sensitivity analysis by omitting single study by turns did not change the pooled outcomes obviously. Conclusion: Our results suggest that elevated serum CHI3L1 concentration is an independent prognostic biomarker for poorer survival in lung cancer patients."
meta-analysis	CPB438652	Circulating Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 Level and Ovarian Cancer Risk Circulating Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 Level and Ovarian Cancer Risk Background/Aims: Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) has an important role in cells' proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis, and it may be involved in carcinogenesis. Several epidemiological studies assessed the association between circulating IGF-1 level and ovarian cancer risk, but there was still no conclusive finding. Methods: A meta-analysis of published studies was performed to assess the association between circulating IGF-1 level and ovarian cancer risk. The summary odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (95%CI) was calculated through meta-analysis to evaluate the strength of the association. Results: Five eligible studies were included into the meta-analysis, which involved a total of 2,028 cases of ovarian cancer and 4,625 controls. Meta-analysis of total 5 studies showed that high circulating IGF-1 level was correlated with decreased risk of ovarian cancer (OR = 0.84, 95%CI 0.74-0.97, P = 0.013). After adjusting for heterogeneity, high circulating IGF-1 level was still correlated with decreased risk of ovarian cancer (OR = 0.83, 95%CI 0.72-0.95, P = 0.007). Subgroup analysis by age showed that circulating IGF-1 level was not correlated with ovarian cancer risk in women both less than 55 years and more than 55 years. However, after adjusting for heterogeneity, high circulating IGF-1 level was correlated with decreased ovarian cancer risk in women less than 55 years (OR = 0.82, 95%CI 0.72-0.94, P = 0.004). Conclusion: Our meta-analysis suggests that high circulating IGF-1 level may be correlated with decreased ovarian cancer risk, especially in women less than 55 years. More studies are needed to further assess the association between circulating IGF-1 level and ovarian cancer risk in the future.
meta-analysis	CPB443032	"Meta-Analyses of Association Between BRAFV600E Mutation and Clinicopathological Features of Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma Meta-Analyses of Association Between BRAFV600E Mutation and Clinicopathological Features of Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma Background/Aims: The function of BRAF V600E as a prognostic biomarker continues controversial by reason of conflicting results in the published articles. Methods: A systematical literature search for relevant articles was performed in PubMed, Cochrane Library, Google Scholar, Medline and Embase updated to August 5, 2015. The Chi-square test and I2 were employed to examine statistical heterogeneity. Pooled ORs with their corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95%CIs) were calculated to assess the relationship between clinicopathological features and BRAFV600E mutation. Subgroup analyses by ethnicity were also performed to explore the potential sources of heterogeneity. Furthermore, publication bias was detected using the funnel plot and all statistical analyses were conducted by the software of R 3.12. Results: Of 25,241 cases with PTC, 15,290 (60.6%) were positive for BRAF mutation and 9,951 (39.4%) were tested negative for BRAF mutation. Negative status of BRAFV600E mutation negative was significantly associated with gender (OR = 0.90, 95%CI = 0.83-0.97) and concomitant hashimoto thyroiditis (OR = 0.53, 95%CI = 0.43-0.64). By contrast, positive status of BRAFV600E mutation was a significant predictor of multifocality (OR = 1.23; 95%CI = 1.14-1.32), extrathyroidal extension (OR = 2.23; 95%CI = 1.90-2.63), TNM stage (OR = 1.67; 95%CI = 1.53-1.81), lymph node metastasis (OR = 1.67; 95%CI = 1.45-1.93), vascular invasion (OR = 1.47; 95%CI = 1.22-1.79) and recurrence/persistence (OR = 2.33; 95%CI = 1.71-3.18). However, there was no significant association between BRAFV600E mutation and factors including age &gt; 45 (OR = 0.98; 95%CI = 0.89-1.07), tumor size (OR = 0.84; 95%CI = 0.64-1.09) and distant metastasis (OR = 1.23; 95%CI = 0.67-2.27). Conclusion: This meta-analysis confirmed significant associations between BRAFV600E mutation and female gender, multifocality, ETE, LNM, TNM stage, concomitant hashimoto thyroiditis, vascular invasion and recurrence/persistence, suggesting the predictive value of BRAFV600Emutation for PTC prognosis."
meta-analysis	CPB443046	Blood-Based Circulating MicroRNAs are Potential Diagnostic Biomarkers for Leukemia: Result from a Meta-Analysis Blood-Based Circulating MicroRNAs are Potential Diagnostic Biomarkers for Leukemia: Result from a Meta-Analysis Aims: Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) as biomarkers for leukemia have been validated by emerging studies. This meta-analysis aims to estimate the overall diagnostic accuracy of blood-based circulating miRNAs for leukemia. Methods: We searched multiple databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, CNKI, Wan Fang Data and CQVIP) up to June 18, 2015. Results: 32 studies from 10 publications were included in this meta-analysis. Diagnostic capacity was evaluated by pooled sensitivity, specifIcity, positive likelihood ratio (PLR), negative likelihood ratio (NLR), diagnostic odds ratio (DOR), and area under the curve (AUC) through random-effects model. Sensitivity analyses were sequentially performed to find potential sources of heterogeneity. The quality of included studies was assessed by QUADAS (quality assessment for studies of diagnostic accuracy). Meta-Disc 1.4 and Stata 12.0 software were used to perform the meta-analysis. A high diagnostic accuracy was displayed, with a sensitivity of 0.84, a specificity of 0.88, a PLR of 7.20, a NLR of 0.18, a DOR of 52, and an AUC of 0.94. Subgroup analyses revealed better performance for combined miRNAs, acute myeloid leukemia patients and Asian population than other subgroups. Conclusion: Our analyses suggested that blood-based circulating miRNAs are promising diagnostic biomarkers for leukemia, especially combined miRNAs. Its clinical application awaits further study.
research-article	CPB443085	Stimulating Effect of Terfenadine on Erythrocyte Cell Membrane Scrambling Stimulating Effect of Terfenadine on Erythrocyte Cell Membrane Scrambling Background/Aims: The antihistaminic drug Terfenadine may trigger apoptosis of tumor cells, an effect unrelated to its effect on histamine receptors. Similar to apoptosis of nucleated cells, erythrocytes may enter eryptosis, the suicidal death of erythrocytes characterized by cell shrinkage and cell membrane scrambling with phosphatidylserine translocation to the erythrocyte surface. Signaling triggering eryptosis include increase of cytosolic Ca2+ activity ([Ca2+]i), oxidative stress, and ceramide. The present study explored, whether Terfenadine is capable to trigger eryptosis. Methods: Flow cytometry was employed to estimate phosphatidylserine abundance at the erythrocyte surface from annexin-V-binding, cell volume from forward scatter, [Ca2+]i from Fluo3-fluorescence, abundance of reactive oxygen species (ROS) from 2′,7′-dichlorodihydrofluorescein (DCF) diacetate dependent fluorescence, and ceramide abundance at the human erythrocyte surface utilizing specific antibodies. Hemolysis was quantified from haemoglobin concentration in the supernatant. Results: A 48 hours exposure of human erythrocytes to Terfenadine (≥ 5 µM) significantly increased the percentage of annexin-V-binding cells and triggered hemolysis without significantly modifying the average forward scatter. Terfenadine (7.5 µM) significantly increased Fluo3-fluorescence, but did not significantly modify DCF fluorescence or ceramide abundance. The effect of Terfenadine on annexin-V-binding was significantly blunted but not abolished by removal of extracellular Ca2+. Exposure of human erythrocytes to Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin (1 µM, 15 min) triggered annexin-V-binding, an effect augmented by Terfenadine pretreatment (10 µM, 48 hours). Conclusions: Terfenadine triggers phospholipid scrambling of the human erythrocyte cell membrane, an effect in part due to entry of extracellular Ca2+ and in part due to sensitizing human erythrocyte cell membrane scrambling to Ca2+.
research-article	CPB443086	The Tumor Suppressive Role of MiRNA-509-5p by Targeting FOXM1 in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer The Tumor Suppressive Role of MiRNA-509-5p by Targeting FOXM1 in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Background/Aims: Deregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) expression is a frequent event in cancer development and progression. Recent studies have implied that abnormal expression of miRNAs is frequently observed in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Here, we examined the levels and biological functions of miR-509-5p in NSCLC. Methods: The levels of miR-509-5p were measured by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-PCR) in NSCLC cell lines and NSCLC tissues along with adjacent normal tissues. Cell viability was analyzed by MTT and colony formation assay. Cell migration and invasion were evaluated by transwell and wound healing assay. In addition, we predicted the putative targets of miR-509-5p by bioinformatics analyses. Moreover, by luciferase-reporter assay, we analyzed the relationship between miR-509-5p and the target in NSCLC cells. Results: miR-509-5p expression was significantly reduced in NSCLC tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues. In addition, miR-509-5p decreased cell proliferation, migration and invasive capability of NSCLC cells. Moreover, we found that FOXM1 was a putative target of miR-509-5p. Enforced miR-509-5p expression in NSCLC cells reduced both mRNA and protein levels of FOXM1. Furthermore, dual-luciferase reporter assay showed miR-509-5p could bind to the 3' untranslational regions of FOXM1 mRNA. Furthermore, overexpression of FOXM1 reversed cell viability, migration, invasion and vimentin levels suppressed by miR-509-5p mimics in H1299 cells. Conclusions: miR-509-5p exerts tumor-suppressive effects by attenuating FOXM1 in NSCLC. Collectively, these findings provide further evidence that miR-509-5p may be considered as a novel and potential target for the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of NSCLC.
research-article	CPB443087	The Novel H7N9 Influenza A Virus NS1 Induces p53-Mediated Apoptosis of A549 Cells The Novel H7N9 Influenza A Virus NS1 Induces p53-Mediated Apoptosis of A549 Cells Background: H7N9, emerged as an avian influenza virus outbreak in Eastern China in early 2013, and represented another major threat to global health. Roles of its NS1 protein, an essential viral factor, in regulating apoptosis remain unknown. Methods: Apoptotic effect and features of H7N9/NS1 in the human A549 alveolar basal epithelial cell line were examined by caspase 3/7 activity assay and western blotting of apoptotic associated proteins. Effects of H7N9/NS1on mitochondrial membrane potential were investigated by flow cytometry. Results: The expression of H7N9/NS1 in A549 cells activated caspase 3/7 and increased the protein levels of cleaved caspase 7 and cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). H7N9/NS1-expressing A549 cells displayed a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential. In addition, H7N9/NS1 increased the protein levels of total p53, p53 phosphorylated at Ser46 and Ser37, activated caspase 9, and the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. Conclusion: Our results suggest that H7N9/NS1 protein causes the accumulation of p53 by increasing phosphorylation levels of p53 and the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction, which may contribute to H7N9/NS1-induced apoptosis in A549 cells.
research-article	CPB443088	Circulating LncRNAs as Novel, Non-Invasive Biomarkers for Prenatal Detection of Fetal Congenital Heart Defects Circulating LncRNAs as Novel, Non-Invasive Biomarkers for Prenatal Detection of Fetal Congenital Heart Defects Objectives: To explore the clinical value of circulating long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) as biomarkers to predict fetal congenital heart defects (CHD) in pregnant women. Methods: Differential expression of lncRNAs isolated from the plasma of pregnant women with typical fetal CHD or healthy controls was analyzed by microarray. Gene ontology (GO), pathway and network analysis were performed to study the function of the lncRNAs. Differentially expressed lncRNAs were validated in plasma samples from 62 pregnant women with typical CHD and 62 matched controls by RT-PCR. The sensitivity and specificity of each lncRNA in the diagnosis of fetal CHD was determined by ROC curve analysis. Results: Microarray analysis identified 3694 up-regulated and 3919 down-regulated (fold change ≥2.0) lncRNAs. The top ten significantly differentially expressed, CHD-associated lncRNAs were validated by RT-PCR. Five significantly up-regulated or down-regulated lncRNAs were identified: ENST00000436681, ENST00000422826, AA584040, AA709223 and BX478947 with the AUC of ROC curves calculated as 0.892, 0.817, 0.755, 0.882 and 0.886, respectively. Conclusions: Specific lncRNAs aberrantly expressed in the plasma of pregnant women with typical fetal CHD may play a key role in the development of CHD and may be used as novel biomarkers for prenatal diagnosis of fetal CHD.
research-article	CPB443089	Neuroserpin Protects Rat Neurons and Microglia-Mediated Inflammatory Response Against Oxygen-Glucose Deprivation- and Reoxygenation Treatments in an In Vitro Study Neuroserpin Protects Rat Neurons and Microglia-Mediated Inflammatory Response Against Oxygen-Glucose Deprivation- and Reoxygenation Treatments in an In Vitro Study Background/Aims: Neuroserpin (NSP) is known for its neuroprotective role in cerebral ischemic animal models and patients. Our laboratory conducted a series of investigations on the neuroprotection of NSP in different cells in the brain. In the present study, we further observe the effects of NSP on neurons and microglia-mediated inflammatory response following oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), and explore possible mechanisms related to neuroprotection of OGD in the central nervous system (CNS). Methods: Neurons and microglia from neonatal rats were treated with OGD followed by reoxygenation (OGD/R). To confirm the effects of NSP, the neuronal survival, neuronal apoptosis, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release were measured in cultured neurons. Furthermore, the levels of IL-1β and nitric oxide (NO) release were also detected in cultured microglia. The possible mechanisms for the neuroprotective effect of NSP were explored using Western blot analysis. Results: NSP administration can reverse abnormal variations in neurons and microglia-mediated inflammatory response induced by OGD/R processes. The neuronal survival rate, neuronal apoptosis rate, and LDH release were significantly improved by NSP administration in neurons. Simultaneously, the release of IL-1β and NO were significantly reduced by NSP in microglia. Western blot showed that the expression of ERK, P38, and JNK was upregulated in microglia by the OGD/R treatment, and these effects were significantly inhibited by NSP. Conclusion: These data verified the neuroprotective effects of NSP on neurons and microglia-mediated inflammatory response. Inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways might play a potential role in NSP neuroprotection on microglia-mediated inflammatory response, which needs further verification.
meta-analysis	CPB443099	"Association Between Serum Uric Acid Levels and Atrial Fibrillation Risk Association Between Serum Uric Acid Levels and Atrial Fibrillation Risk Background: Several studies were published to assess the association between serum uric acid levels and atrial fibrillation risk, but no consistent results were reported. We performed a meta-analysis to evaluate the evidence of the association between hyperuricemia and atrial fibrillation risk. Material/Methods: Pubmed and Embase databases were searched for prospective cohort studies assessing the association between hyperuricemia and atrial fibrillation risk. Relative risks (RRs) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95%CIs) were pooled using random-effect of meta-analysis to assess the risk of atrial fibrillation in individuals with hyperuricemia. Results: Six cohort studies were finally included into the meta-analysis. Meta-analysis of those 6 studies showed that hyperuricemia was significantly associated with increased risk of atrial fibrillation (RR = 1.49, 95%CI 1.24-1.79, P &lt; 0.001). Sensitivity analysis by omitting single study sequentially by turns did not have any obvious influence on the pooled risk estimates. There was no obvious risk of publication bias in the meta-analysis. Conclusions: Based on the currently available data, hyperuricemia is associated with increased risk of atrial fibrillation."
meta-analysis	CPB443122	Comparison of Nerve-Sparing Radical Hysterectomy and Radical Hysterectomy: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Comparison of Nerve-Sparing Radical Hysterectomy and Radical Hysterectomy: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Radical hysterectomy (RH) for the treatment of cervical cancer frequently caused pelvic organ dysfunctions. This study aimed to compare the results of pelvic organ function and recurrence rate after Nerve sparing radical hysterectomy (NSRH) and RH treatment through systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: PubMed, Web of Science and China Knowledge Resource Integrated Database were searched from inception to 25 February 2015. Studies of cervical cancer which reported radical hysterectomy or nerve sparing radical hysterectomy were included. The quality of included studies was evaluated using the guidelines of Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. Statistical analysis was performed using Review Manager 5.3 software (Cochrane Collaboration). Results: A total of 20 studies were finally included. Meta-analysis demonstrated that NSRH was associated with less bladder and anorectal dysfunction than RH. The time to bladder and anorectal function recovery after NSRH was shorter than RH. Patients undergoing NSRH also scored higher than patients undergoing RH at Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI). On the other hand, the local recurrence and overall recurrence rate were similar between NSRH and RH. Conclusion: NSRH may be an effective technique for lowering pelvic organ dysfunction and improving the function recovery without increasing the recurrence rate of cervical cancer.
meta-analysis	CPB445548	Chronic Hepatitis B Infection is Associated with Decreased Risk of Preeclampsia: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Chronic Hepatitis B Infection is Associated with Decreased Risk of Preeclampsia: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background/Aims: Preeclampsia is a complex multi-system obstetric syndrome and remains one of the leading causes contributing to maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity. Previous epidemiological studies regarding the association between chronic hepatitis B virus (CHB) infection and the risk of preeclampsia have reported inconsistent results. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to investigate the association between CHB infection and preeclampsia. Methods: The electronic database was searched until January 1st, 2016. Relevant studies reporting the association between CHB infection and the risk of preeclampsia were included and for further evaluation. Statistical analysis was performed using Stata 10.0 (Stata Corp). Results: Three observational cohort studies and eight case-control studies, including 11566 preeclampsia patients, were identified. A significant negative association between CHB infection and preeclampsia was observed (odds ratio = 0.77, 95% confidence interval, 0.65- 0.90, P=0.002, fixed-effect model). Conclusions: Findings from our meta-analysis indicate that CHB infection may decrease the risk of preeclampsia in Asian population. Future prospective cohorts in different countries with larger sample sizes are warranted to ascertain the causality and pathophysiological studies are required to explore the possible biological mechanisms involved.
meta-analysis	CPB445558	"SATB1 is Correlated with Progression and Metastasis of Breast Cancers: A Meta-Analysis SATB1 is Correlated with Progression and Metastasis of Breast Cancers: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Several researches have evaluated the significance of SATB1 (Special AT-rich sequence binding protein 1) expression in breast cancers (BCs), but the results have been disputed, especially in the aspects of clinicopathological features and prognosis. Therefore, our study aimed to use a meta-analysis to summarize the clinical and prognostic relevance of SATB1 gene expression in BCs. Methods: A literature search of PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane library, Chinese Wanfang and CNKI was performed to identify eligible studies. Ten studies total, comprising 5,185 patients (1,699 SATB1-positive and 3,486 SATB1-negative), were enrolled in our study, which was performed using Revman5.3 Software and Stata11.0 Software. Results: This meta-analysis showed that the expression of SATB1 was significantly higher in breast cancer than in normal tissues (OR = 12.28; 95%CI = 6.01-25.09), and was statistically related to several clinicopathological parameters, including lymph node metastasis (OR = 1.55, 95%CI = 1.01-2.39) and Tumor Node Metastasis(TNM) stage (OR = 0.35, 95%CI = 0.22-0.56). However, the level of SATB1 was not statistically associated with the age (OR = 1.13, 95%CI = 0.87-1.46), tumour size (OR = 0.72, 95%CI = 0.44-1.19), estrogen receptor (OR = 0.78, 95%CI = 0.55-1.09), progesterone receptor (OR = 0.64, 95%CI = 0.32-1.29), HER2 status (OR=1.98, 95%CI = 0.74-5.30), and histological type (OR = 0.49, 95%CI = 0.22-1.11). Conclusion: High expression of SATB1 was significantly correlated with tumourigenesis and metastasis of BCs, indicating poor prognosis for patients. SATB1 could serve as a potential marker for detection and prognosis evaluation of breast cancers."
meta-analysis	CPB445579	Mean Platelet Volume, Platelet Distribution Width, and Platelet Count in Varicocele: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Mean Platelet Volume, Platelet Distribution Width, and Platelet Count in Varicocele: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: The aim of this study was to elucidate the usefulness of platelet indices, mean platelet volume (MPV), platelet distribution width (PDW), and platelet count in diagnosis and monitoring of varicocele. Methods: The current study included 525 patients and 379 healthy subjects from five eligible studies. We performed meta-analysis of MPV, PDW, and platelet count and mean differences in these platelet indices between healthy subjects and varicocele patients. Results: The pooled MPVs were 8.168 fL (95% confidence interval [CI] 7.589 to 8.747) and 8.801 fL (95% CI 8.028 to 9.574) in healthy subjects and varicocele patients, respectively. The pooled mean difference in MPV between healthy subjects and varicocele patients was 0.834 fL in case-control studies (95% CI 0.195 to 1.473, P = 0.011). In both healthy subjects and varicocele patients, low platelet count subgroups showed higher MPV than high platelet count subgroups. The mean difference in MPV was higher in low platelet count subgroup. There was no significant difference in PDW between healthy subjects and varicocele patients. Conclusion: Taken together, our data showed that platelet count was significantly lower in varicocele patients than in healthy subjects. Varicocele patients showed significantly higher MPV and lower platelet count than healthy subjects. MPV levels of patients differed according to platelet counts.
meta-analysis	CPB445639	"Influence of Four Radiotracers in PET/CT on Diagnostic Accuracy for Prostate Cancer: A Bivariate Random-Effects Meta-Analysis Influence of Four Radiotracers in PET/CT on Diagnostic Accuracy for Prostate Cancer: A Bivariate Random-Effects Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: To date, several positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) radiotracers including fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG), carbon-11 labeled choline (11C-choline), 18-F fluorocholine (18F-FCH) and carbon-11 acetate (11C-acetate) have already been assessed in the application of prostate cancer (PCa) diagnosis to some extent, the diagnostic efficiency of these radiotracers still remain controversial. As a result of this, we carried out this meta-analysis for the purpose of comparing the diagnostic accuracy among four PET/CT radiotracers. Methods: A systematical literature search for articles was performed until July 3, 2015. We implemented all analysis using the statistical software of STATA12 and quality assessment was performed using QUADAS-2. Results: A total of 56 studies containing 3,586 patients were included in this meta-analysis. Parameter estimates of the overall analysis are as follows: sensitivity, 0.80 (95% CI: 0.74-0.85); specificity, 0.84 (95% CI: 0.77-0.89) and area under roc curve-AUC of SROC, 0.89 (95% CI: 0.86-0.91), indicating a relatively high level of accuracy in diagnosis of PCa. When different radiotracers of PET/CT were compared, 18F-FCH-PET/CT was ranked as the most favorable with the highest value of AUC (AUC = 0.94; 95% CI: 0.92-0.96) whereas 18F-FDG was the least favorable (AUC = 0.73, 95% CI: 0.69-0.77). Conclusion: This study suggested that PET/CT imaging plays an invaluable role in the diagnosis of PCa and 18F-FCH-PET/CT was considered as a superior diagnostic tool over other radiotracers. More attention should be paid to the diagnostic efficiency of the four radiotracers particularly for PCa patients with different clinical stages."
meta-analysis	CPB447828	"Preterm Birth and Subsequent Risk of Acute Childhood Leukemia: a Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Preterm Birth and Subsequent Risk of Acute Childhood Leukemia: a Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Preterm birth (PTB) has been recognized as a crucial long term risk factor for multiple non-communicable diseases. However, studies between the relationship of PTB and the risk of acute childhood leukemia have yielded inconclusive results. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to systematically review the current literature to investigate whether PTB is associated with increased risk of acute childhood leukemia. Methods: Three electronic databases (PubMed, Web of Science, and EMBASE) were searched up to December 1st, 2015. Relevant studies reporting the association between PTB and subsequent risk of acute childhood leukemia were included for further evaluation. Statistical analysis was performed using Revmen 5.3 and Stata 10.0. Results: A total of 12 studies for acute childhood leukemia, eight studies for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and seven studies for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were included in the current meta-analyses. We calculated pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) to evaluate the relationship between PTB and acute childhood leukemia as well as its two subtypes: ALL and AML. Our results suggested that PTB was significantly associated with increased risk of acute childhood leukemia (OR = 1.09, 95% CI = 1.02-1.17, P = 0.01) and AML (OR = 1.42, 95% CI = 1.21-1.67, P &lt; 0.01). However, PTB was not significantly associated with an increased risk of ALL (OR = 1.04, 95% CI = 0.96-1.13, P = 0.29). Conclusion: Our data showed that PTB increased the risk of AML. Further studies are required to explore causality and dissect the biological mechanisms involved."
meta-analysis	CPB447859	"B7-H3 Overexpression Predicts Poor Survival of Cancer Patients: A Meta-Analysis B7-H3 Overexpression Predicts Poor Survival of Cancer Patients: A Meta-Analysis Background: B7-H3 exhibits altered expression in various cancers. However, the correlation between B7-H3 expression and prognosis of cancer patients remains controversial. Therefore, we elicit a meta-analysis to investigate the potential value of B7-H3 in the prognostic prediction in human cancers. Materials and Methods: We searched PubMed (last update by June 15th, 2016) to identify studies assessing the effect of B7-H3 on survival of cancer patients. Hazard ratios (HRs) for overall survival (OS), recurrence free survival (RFS) and progression-free survival (PFS) from individual studies were calculated and pooled by using a random-effect or fix-effect model, and heterogeneity and publication bias analyses were also performed. Results: Data from 24 observational studies consisting of 4141 patients were summarized. An elevated baseline B7-H3 was significantly correlated with poor OS (pooled HR = 2.09; 95% CI =1.60-2.74; P &lt; 0.001). Differences across subgroups of tumor type (P = 0.324), year of publication (P = 0.431), ethnicity (P = 0.940), source of HR (P = 0.145), analysis type (P = 0.178) and sample size (P = 0.909) were not significant. Furthermore, high B7-H3 expression also predicted a significantly poor RFS (pooled HR = 1.39; 95% CI = 1.11-1.75; P = 0.004) but not PFS. Conclusions: This meta-analysis clarifies that elevated B7-H3 expression is significantly associated with poor survival in cancer patients."
meta-analysis	CPB447863	Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Intravesical Hyaluronic Acid and Hyaluronic Acid/Chondroitin Sulfate Instillation for Interstitial Cystitis/Painful Bladder Syndrome Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Intravesical Hyaluronic Acid and Hyaluronic Acid/Chondroitin Sulfate Instillation for Interstitial Cystitis/Painful Bladder Syndrome Background/Aims: To assess the efficacy of intravesical hyaluronic acid (HA) and HA/chondroitin sulfate (CS) instillation in patients with interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome by systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: A systematic literature search was performed using the keywords: ‘interstitial cystitis' or ‘painful bladder syndrome' or ‘bladder pain syndrome' and ‘hyaluronic acid', up to March 31, 2016. The primary outcome was visual analogue scale related pain symptom (VAS). Secondary outcomes were the O'Leary-Sant Interstitial Cystitis Symptom Index (ICSI) and Problem Index (ICPI), frequency, nocturia, bladder volume, and voided urine volume. Results: Ten articles involving 390 patients were retrieved and assessed in analysis. A significant improvement in mean VAS on fixed-effect and random-effect models (mean difference [MD] -3.654, 95% confidence interval [CI] -3.814 to -3.495, and MD -3.206, 95% CI -4.156 to -2.257, respectively) was found. Significant improvements were found in the ICSI (MD -3.223, 95% CI -4.132 to -2.315) and ICPI (MD -2.941, 95% CI -3.767 to -2.116). Similarly, the other outcomes were significantly improved. Conclusion: Intravesical HA and HA/CS instillation improved pain symptom, quality of life, and other outcomes and could be included as therapeutic modality of interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome.
meta-analysis	CPB447887	Prognostic Significance of MiRNA in Patients with Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma: a Meta-Analysis Prognostic Significance of MiRNA in Patients with Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma: a Meta-Analysis Introduction: This pooled analysis study aimed to reveal the prognostic relevance of microRNAs (miRNAs) in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Materials and Methods: We examined the impact of miRNAs on clinical outcome. Eligible studies were identified and quality assessed using multiple search strategies. Data were extracted from included studies which correlated survival with expression of miRNAs (serum or tissue). Results: We pooled proper studies, and combined the hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals to estimate strength of the correlations. There were 18 studies including 1950 patients with DLBCL eligible for pooled analysis. We found significant combined HRs for poor overall survival for high expression of miR-21 and low expression of miR-224 in tumor tissue, but for favorable relapse free survival for high expression of miR-21 in serum. Progression free survival was shortened in patients with low expression of miR-199a/b, miR-146b-5p, miR-224 and high expression of miR-222. Conclusion: MiRNAs may act as independent prognostic factors in patients with DLBCL, and useful in risk stratification.
meta-analysis	CPB447892	"Clinical Therapeutic Effects of Aspirin in Combination with Fufang Danshen Diwan, a Traditional Chinese Medicine Formula, on Coronary Heart Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Clinical Therapeutic Effects of Aspirin in Combination with Fufang Danshen Diwan, a Traditional Chinese Medicine Formula, on Coronary Heart Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Coronary heart disease is characterized by vascular stenosis or occlusion resulting in myocardial ischemia, hypoxia and necrosis. In China, the combination of aspirin and Fufang Danshen Diwan (FDD), a traditional Chinese medicine formula, has been suggested in the treatment of coronary heart disease. There have been several studies comparing the effectiveness of aspirin alone and in combination with FDD to treat coronary artery disease; however, it remains unclear whether combined aspirin therapy is superior. This study was thus designed to clarify this issue through a systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: Databases including PubMed, EMBASE, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) database, Wanfang Data and VIP Information were searched. Papers were reviewed systematically by two researchers and analyzed using Cochrane software Revman 5.1. Results: Fourteen randomized controlled trials enrolling 1367 subjects were included. Meta-analyses revealed that aspirin in combination with FDD was significantly more effective at alleviating angina pectoris and improving electrocardiogram (ECG) results relative to aspirin therapy alone, reflected by the summary effects for the clinical markedly effective (OR = 2.45; 95% CI 1.95-3.08) and the total effective (OR = 3.92; 95% CI 2.87-5.36) rates. In addition, combined aspirin and FDD was significantly more efficacious than aspirin monotherapy at improving blood lipid levels, as indicated by the following outcomes: 1) reduction of TC level (SMD −1.12; 95% CI −1.49 to −0.76); 2) reduction of TG level (SMD −0.94; 95% CI −1.15 to -0.74); 3) reduction of LDL level (SMD -0.68; 95% CI -0.88 to -0.48); and 4) improvement of HDL level (SMD 0.52; 95% CI 0.04 to 0.99 ). No serious adverse events were reported in any of the included trials. Conclusion: The present meta-analysis demonstrated that aspirin in combination with FDD was more effective than aspirin alone for treating coronary heart disease. More full-scale randomized clinical trials with reliable designs are recommended to further evaluate the clinical benefits and long-term effectiveness of FDD for the treatment of coronary heart disease."
meta-analysis	CPB447918	"Associations of Polymorphisms in Anti-Müllerian Hormone (AMH Ile49Ser) and its Type II Receptor (AMHRII -482 A&gt;G) on Reproductive Outcomes and Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Associations of Polymorphisms in Anti-Müllerian Hormone (AMH Ile49Ser) and its Type II Receptor (AMHRII -482 A&gt;G) on Reproductive Outcomes and Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Reported associations of reproductive outcomes (RO) and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) with genotypes of the Ile49Ser and -482A&gt;G polymorphisms in the Anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) gene and its type II receptor (AMHRII), respectively, have conflicting results. Methods: PubMed, Google Scholar and Science Direct databases were searched for studies that investigated Ile49Ser and -482A&gt;G in RO and PCOS. Using the metaanalytic approach, we estimated risk (odds ratio [OR] with 95% confidence intervals) using standard genetic models. Results: All calculated summary effects were non-significant. Overall associations of Ile49Ser and -482A&gt;G with RO were absent (OR 0.95-0.99, P = 0.76-0.96) but implied increased risk in PCOS (OR 1.07-1.17, P = 0.49-0.55). Where heterogeneity of the pooled ORs were present, its sources were explored using the Galbraith plot. Detection and omission of the outlying studies in both polymorphisms not only erased heterogeneity of the recalculated pooled outcomes but also changed direction of association, where null effects turned to increased risk (Ile49Ser in RO) and increased risk became reduced risk (-482A&gt;G in PCOS). Implications of the Ile49Ser and -482A&gt;G, effects pointed to protection for Caucasians (OR 0.64-0.89, P = 0.36-0.73) in RO and increased risk in PCOS (OR 1.19-1.45, P = 0.28-0.65). Asian effects in RO and PCOS were variable (OR 0.97-1.24, P = 0.58-0.91). Conclusions: In summary, we found no evidence of significant associations of Ile49Ser and -482A&gt;G with RO and PCOS, although contrasting Ile49Ser effects were implied among Caucasians between RO (up to 0.36% reduced risk) and PCOS (up to 1.5-fold increased risk)."
meta-analysis	CPB452508	Conventional, Doppler and Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasonography in Differential Diagnosis of Ovarian Masses Conventional, Doppler and Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasonography in Differential Diagnosis of Ovarian Masses Background: Differential diagnosis of ovarian masses can influence both treatment selection and prognosis of ovarian tumor patients. A comprehensive review was performed with respect to the diagnostic value of conventional ultrasonography, Doppler ultrasonography and contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CEUS) in differentiating benign from malignant ovarian masses. Methods: Databases were searched for relevant articles. Retrieved studies were screened according to the inclusion criteria. Pooled statistics including specificity, sensitivity, positive likelihood ratios (PLR), negative likelihood ratios (NLR), diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) and area under curve (AUC) were utilized to calculate the overall diagnostic value for each diagnostic approach. Results: Sixty-seven high quality articles were finally enrolled in the present meta-analysis. The sensitivity and specificity of conventional US were 0.92 and 0.86, respectively. The corresponding sensitivity and specificity of Doppler US were 0.93 and 0.85, respectively. Additionally, these figures for CEUS were 0.97 and 0.92, respectively. Finally, the AUC values for conventional US, Doppler US and CEUS were 0.95, 0.96 and 0.99, respectively. Conclusion: All of the three US-related imaging modalities have relatively high diagnostic value in distinguishing malignant tumors from benign ones in ovarian tumors.
meta-analysis	CPB452512	"Cell-Derived Microparticles in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Cell-Derived Microparticles in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: The aim of this study was to assess the association between circulating cell-derived microparticles (MPs) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Methods: A literature search was performed systematically in PubMed and Embase to identify available case-control or cross-sectional studies that compared different types of cell-derived MPs in patients with T2DM and non-diabetic controls. Pooled standardized mean differences (SMDs) of each MP type were pooled using meta-analysis. Results: Forty-eight studies involving 2,460 patients with T2DM and 1,880 non-diabetic controls were included for systematic review and 34 of which were included for quantitative study by meta-analysis. In the overall analysis, the levels of circulating total MPs (TMPs), platelet-derived MPs (PMPs), monocyte-derived MPs (MMPs) and endothelium-derived MPs (EMPs) were significantly higher in T2DM patients than those in controls (TMPs: SMD, 0.64; 95%CI, 0.12∼1.15; P=0.02; PMPs: SMD, 1.19; 95%CI, 0.88∼1.50; P &lt;0.00001; MMPs: SMD, 0.92; 95%CI, 0.66∼1.17; P &lt;0.00001; EMPs: SMD, 0.73; 95%CI, 0.50∼0.96; P &lt;0.00001). Meanwhile, no significant difference was shown in leukocyte-derived MPs (LMPs) level between diabetic and non-diabetic groups (SMD, 0.37; 95%CI, -0.15∼0.89; P=0.17). Conclusions: The counts of TMPs, PMPs, MMPs and EMPs elevated in patients with T2DM. And cell-derived MPs may play a role in the pathogenesis of T2DM."
meta-analysis	CPB452513	"Comparing the Diagnostic Accuracy of RTE and SWE in Differentiating Malignant Thyroid Nodules from Benign Ones: a Meta-Analysis Comparing the Diagnostic Accuracy of RTE and SWE in Differentiating Malignant Thyroid Nodules from Benign Ones: a Meta-Analysis Background: Approximately 10-20 million Americans have been clinically diagnosed with thyroid nodules. Shear wave elastography (SWE) and real-time elastography (RTE) are two primary forms of elastography for identifying the status of thyroid nodules. The aim of this study is to assess the performance of RTE and SWE in identifying malignant thyroid nodules. Methods: Relevant articles were systematically retrieved from PubMed, Embase and Cochrane Library. In order to evaluate the overall diagnostic accuracy, we have considered pooled sensitivity (SEN), specificity (SPE), area under the curve (AUC) and partial AUC with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95%CIs). Stratified analyses by ethnicity (Caucasian, Asian), the number of malignant nodules (&gt; 50, &lt; 50), score system (elasticity scores: ES and strain ration: SR) and ES (&gt; 4, &lt; 4) were performed to explore potential sources of heterogeneity. All statistical tests were performed using the R 3.2.1 software package. Results: We analyzed 80 trials from 71 studies with 16,624 subjects (12,348 for SWE, 4,276 for RTE). The pooled results suggested that RTE is more accurate than SWE in diagnosing malignant cases (RTE: SEN= 0.829, 95%CI = 0.799-0.855, SPE = 0.828, 95%CI = 0.789-0.862, AUC = 0.889; SWE: SEN = 0.784, 95%CI = 0.732-0.828, SPE = 0.824, 95%CI = 0.766-0.871, AUC = 0.859). No significant difference was found in the subgroup analyses. Conclusion: Our findings revealed that RTE is superior to SWE in differentiating malignant and benign thyroid nodules. Nevertheless, more studies focusing on the diagnostic accuracy of RTE and SWE during different stages of thyroid nodules development should be carried out in the future."
meta-analysis	CPB452515	Systematic Review and Net-Work Meta-Analysis of Upper Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage Interventions Systematic Review and Net-Work Meta-Analysis of Upper Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage Interventions Background/Aims: Upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage (UGH) is a serious medical condition which affects a large number of individuals. Endoscopic therapy accompanied by medication is a standard approach that is used to improve the prognosis of UGH patients and a few medications have been developed including proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), histamine H2 receptor antagonist (H2RA), somatostatin analogues and tranexamic acid. This study is set to compare the efficacy and safety of various medical interventions that are used to manage upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Methods: We searched PubMed, Cochrane Library, and Embase for relevant articles. Eligible studies were determined by using both the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Both traditional pair-wise meta-analysis and net-work analysis were carried out to evaluate the corresponding interventions. Results and Conclusion: PPI is an effective medication for UGH patients and intravenous PPI exhibits equivalent effectiveness and safety in comparison to oral PPI. H2RA is not recommended for UGH patients as patients treated with H2RA are associated with an increased risk of adverse events including rebleeding, need for surgery and all-cause mortality. Moreover, patients treated with H2RA exhibit an increased length of average hospital stay and blood transfusion amount compared to those treated with PPI. Tranexamic acid is also considered as another promising medication for UGH.
meta-analysis	CPB452551	Efficacy of Bevacizumab in the First-Line Treatment of Patients with RAS Mutations Metastatic Colorectal Cancer: a Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis Efficacy of Bevacizumab in the First-Line Treatment of Patients with RAS Mutations Metastatic Colorectal Cancer: a Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Whether patients with RAS mutation metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) obtain benefits from bevacizumab added to first-line chemotherapy remains unclear. Methods: PubMed, Cochrane Systematic Reviews, the Cochrane Collaboration Central Register of Controlled Clinical Trials, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the American Society of Clinical Oncology and European Society for Medical Oncology databases were searched to identify abstracts for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the efficacy of bevacizumab for the first-line treatment of patients with RAS mutations mCRC from inception to the end of April 2016. Hazard ratios (HRs) for overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were estimated. Results: Ten eligible papers reporting six RCTs were included. In the network meta-analysis of patients with RAS mutations, bevacizumab + chemotherapy prolonged PFS compared with chemotherapy alone (HR 0.75, 95% CI 0.51-1.10), but the difference was not statistically significant. Bevacizumab + chemotherapy did not prolong OS compared with chemotherapy alone (HR 1.10, 95% CI 0.73-1.66). Conclusion: There was insufficient evidence to definitively state that patients with RAS mutations mCRC could benefit from bevacizumab combined with chemotherapy as first-line treatment.
meta-analysis	CPB453138	Network Meta-Analysis of Pharmacological Agents for Osteoporosis Treatment and Fracture Prevention Network Meta-Analysis of Pharmacological Agents for Osteoporosis Treatment and Fracture Prevention Background and Objective: Osteoporosis afflicts a large number of populations in the world and is featured by systemic impairment of bone mass and strength which may further trigger an increase in the risk of fragile fractures. This network meta-analysis (NMA) is designed to distinguish therapies more preferable than others with respect to efficacy and safety. Methods: We searched the medical literature for relevant studies systematically. Both direct and indirect evidence were synthesized to compare the efficacy, described by odds ratios (OR) and 95% credible intervals (CrI). Moreover, the surface under cumulative ranking curve was calculated to rank probabilities with respect to clinical outcomes. The new non-vertebral fractures, hip and wrist fractures, and adverse events were evaluated in this NMA. Results: Patients treated by alendronate, denosumab, teriparatide were associated with a reduced risk of new non-vertebral fractures compared to those treated by placebo. Alendronate, denosumab and zoledronic acid had better efficacy in preventing hip fractures. With respect to wrist fractures prevention, no significant difference was observed. Zoledronic acid exhibited significantly increased risk of adverse events than placebo, alendronate, denosumab, and raloxifene. According to SUCRA, teriparatide ranked highest in new non-vertebral fractures prevention, etidronate and denosumab balanced safety and efficacy well. Conclusion: In summary, teriparatide appeared to be the most efficacious drug for preventing new non-vertebral fractures, while etidronate and denosumab were preferable for balancing safety and efficacy well.
meta-analysis	CPB453150	Immunogenicity and Safety of Pandemic Influenza H5N1 Vaccines in Healthy Adults through Meta-Analysis Immunogenicity and Safety of Pandemic Influenza H5N1 Vaccines in Healthy Adults through Meta-Analysis Background: There are sporadic cases and local outbreaks of H5N1 avian influenza virus worldwide every year. The World Health Organization (WHO) has paid close attention to the avian influenza epidemic trend. Avian influenza vaccines (AIV) are considered to be useful when an epidemic occurs. However, the use of AIV for humans is not yet widespread. Methods: This study assessed the immunogenicity and safety of pandemic influenza H5N1 vaccines with inactivated whole virus, split virus and subunit virus vaccines for healthy adults. We searched the databases of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Medline, Excerpata Medica Database (EMBASE) and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI). The data from randomized trials regarding the immunogenicity and safety of AIV with or without different types of adjuvants for healthy adults (with an age range from 18 to 60 years) were collected. Results: According to this study, the most effective doses of H5N1 AIV ranged from 3.75 µg to 7.5 µg Hemagglutinin (HA) antigen. Aluminium adjuvants were administered with the same vaccine dose as a no-adjuvant group and induced the same immune effects. However, novel adjuvants (MF59 and AS03) were used with a smaller dose of vaccine than the no-adjuvant groups and successfully stimulated the body to produce more effective antibodies. Conclusion: All of the H5N1 AIV surveyed in this study were well tolerated without serious adverse reactions.
review-article	CPB453154	Lipotoxic Palmitate Impairs the Rate of β-Oxidation and Citric Acid Cycle Flux in Rat Neonatal Cardiomyocytes Lipotoxic Palmitate Impairs the Rate of β-Oxidation and Citric Acid Cycle Flux in Rat Neonatal Cardiomyocytes Background/Aims: Diabetic hearts exhibit intracellular lipid accumulation. This suggests that the degree of fatty acid oxidation (FAO) in these hearts is insufficient to handle the elevated lipid uptake. We previously showed that palmitate impaired the rate of FAO in primary rat neonatal cardiomyocytes. Here we were interested in characterizing the site of FAO impairment induced by palmitate since it may shed light on the metabolic dysfunction that leads to lipid accumulation in diabetic hearts. Methods: We measured fatty acid oxidation, acetyl-CoA oxidation, and carnitine palmitoyl transferase (Cpt1b) activity. We measured both forward and reverse aconitase activity, as well as NAD+ dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase activity. We also measured reactive oxygen species using the 2', 7'-Dichlorofluorescin Diacetate (DCFDA) assay. Finally we used thin layer chromatography to assess diacylglycerol (DAG) levels. Results: We found that palmitate significantly impaired mitochondrial β-oxidation as well as citric acid cycle flux, but not Cpt1b activity. Palmitate negatively affected net aconitase activity and isocitrate dehydrogenase activity. The impaired enzyme activities were not due to oxidative stress but may be due to DAG mediated PKC activation. Conclusion: This work demonstrates that palmitate, a highly abundant fatty acid in human diets, causes impaired β-oxidation and citric acid cycle flux in primary neonatal cardiomyocytes. This metabolic defect occurs prior to cell death suggesting that it is a cause, rather than a consequence of palmitate mediated lipotoxicity. This impaired mitochondrial metabolism can have important implications for metabolic diseases such as diabetes and obesity.
review-article	CPB453165	"IL-35 Inhibits Angiogenesis through VEGF/Ang2/Tie2 Pathway in Rheumatoid Arthritis IL-35 Inhibits Angiogenesis through VEGF/Ang2/Tie2 Pathway in Rheumatoid Arthritis Background/Aims: The pro-angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiopoietins (Angs) play a prominent role in synovial angiogenesis, an early and critical event in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Interleukin (IL)-35 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that attenuates collagen-induced arthritis, however, the mechanisms involved are not fully understood. Methods: The effects of IL-35 on endothelial cell migration, adhesion, and tube formation were examined using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) in vitro. The effects of IL-35 on vessel formation in vivo were examined using a murine Matrigel plugs model. MMP2/MMP9 and IL-6/IL-8 secretion were assessed by zymography and ELISA, respectively. The crosstalk between IL-35, VEGF, and Ang2 in HUVECs and RA synovial tissue explants was investigated. Results: IL-35 inhibited basal and VEGF-induced HUVEC migration and adhesion in vitro as well as tube formation in vitro and in vivo. VEGF increased Ang2 secretion by HUVECs and RA synovial tissue explants, and exogenous Ang2 promoted HUVEC migration, adhesion, and tube formation with similar potency to VEGF. Blocking the Ang/Tie2 pathway with a Tie2 kinase antibody inhibited the proangiogenic effects of exogenous Ang2 and VEGF in HUVECs. IL-35 inhibited basal and VEGF-induced Ang2 secretion by HUVECs and RA synovial tissue explants; it also antagonized the proangiogenic effects of exogenous Ang2 in HUVECs. Moreover, IL-35 reduced basal and VEGF/Ang2-induced MMP2/MMP9 and IL-6/IL-8 secretion. Conclusion: These results suggested that IL-35 restrains RA angiogenesis and inflammation by downregulating basal and VEGF-induced Ang2 secretion as well as disrupting Ang2/Tie2 signal transduction. Our findings extend current understanding of mechanisms regulating RA angiogenesis and may support development of novel angiogenesis-targeting therapeutics for RA treatment."
review-article	CPB453171	Cannabinoid 2 Receptor Agonist Improves Systemic Sensitivity to Insulin in High-Fat Diet/Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetic Mice Cannabinoid 2 Receptor Agonist Improves Systemic Sensitivity to Insulin in High-Fat Diet/Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetic Mice Background/Aims: The endocannabinoid signalling (ECS) system has been known to regulate glucose homeostasis. Previous studies have suggested that the cannabinoid 2 (CB2) receptor may play a regulatory role on insulin secretion, immune modulation and insulin resistance. Given that diabetes and insulin resistance are attributable to elevated inflammatory tone, we investigated the role of CB2 receptor on glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in high-fat diet (HFD)/streptozotocin (STZ)-induced mice. Methods: Diabetes was induced in male ICR mice by HFD/STZ and exposed to a CB2 receptor agonist, SER601, for 2- or 4-weeks via subcutaneous implantation of osmotic minipumps. Glucose and insulin tolerance tests were performed at the end of treatment. Islets were isolated for assessment of β-cell function. Pancreases and skeletal muscles were also obtained for histological analyses. Results: Despite a lack of impact on glucose tolerance, substantial improvement on insulin sensitivity was observed in SER601-treated mice, which could partly be attributed to improved islet β-cell function, shown as increased glucose-induced insulin secretion and insulin content. No changes on islet macrophage infiltration or skeletal muscle fat deposition were detectable from SER601-treated mice. However, a major decrease in body weight was recorded at the end of 4-week SER601 exposure, accompanied by a lack of epididymal adipose mass in SER601-treated mice. Conclusion: Our data suggest a lipolytic role of SER601 in HFD/STZ-induced diabetic mice, which results in significant improvement of systemic insulin sensitivity. Thus, the CB2 receptor may be considered a promising target for therapeutic development against insulin resistance and obesity-related diabetes.
review-article	CPB453172	"Effects of Diabetic Hyperglycemia on Central Ang-(1-7)-Mas-R-nNOS Pathways in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats Effects of Diabetic Hyperglycemia on Central Ang-(1-7)-Mas-R-nNOS Pathways in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats Background/Aims: Hypertension is a major cause of stroke, and diabetes can increase incidence of this disease. We determined the role played by central angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)] pathway in modulating spontaneously hypertension with diabetic hyperglycemia. Methods: Western Blot analysis and ELISA were used to determine the protein expression of Ang-(1-7) and its signal pathway Mas-R-nNOS in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and control animals. In a subset of animals, diabetic hyperglycemia was induced by systemic injection of streptozotocin (STZ). We analyzed a relationship between the levels of central Ang-(1-7) and plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) indicating a risk of ischemic stroke. We further examined the effects of Ang-(1-7) on arterial blood pressure. Results: Our findings demonstrated for the first time that administration of STZ 1) attenuates the levels of Ang-(1-7) in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, which are closely linked to plasma BNP; and 2) leads to downregulation of central Ang-(1-7)-Mas-R-nNOS pathways. Notably, STZ has greater effects in SHR. Additionally, inhibition of oxidative stress can largely improve downregulation of Ang-(1-7) in diabetic SHR. Moreover, central stimulation of Ang-(1-7) pathway or a blockade of oxidative stress improves systolic blood pressure in diabetic SHR. Conclusions: The Ang-(1-7) signaling pathway is engaged in the adaptive mechanisms associated with diabetic hypertension, suggesting that enhancing Ang-(1-7)-Mas-R-nNOS system is likely to be beneficial in preventing against cardiovascular and cerebrovascular dysfunction and vulnerability related to spontaneously hypertension, particularly to diabetic hypertension."
review-article	CPB453180	Mechanisms of IhERG/IKr Modulation by α1-Adrenoceptors in HEK293 Cells and Cardiac Myocytes Mechanisms of IhERG/IKr Modulation by α1-Adrenoceptors in HEK293 Cells and Cardiac Myocytes Background: The rapid delayed rectifier K+ current (IKr), carried by the hERG protein, is one of the main repolarising currents in the human heart and a reduction of this current increases the risk of ventricular fibrillation. α1-adrenoceptors (α1-AR) activation reduces IKr but, despite the clear relationship between an increase in the sympathetic tone and arrhythmias, the mechanisms underlying the α1-AR regulation of the hERG channel are controversial. Thus, we aimed to investigate the mechanisms by which α1-AR stimulation regulates IKr. Methods: α1-adrenoceptors, hERG channels, auxiliary subunits minK and MIRP1, the non PIP2-interacting mutant D-hERG (with a deletion of the 883-894 amino acids) in the C-terminal and the non PKC-phosphorylable mutant N-terminal truncated-hERG (NTK-hERG) were transfected in HEK293 cells. Cell membranes were extracted by centrifugation and the different proteins were visualized by Western blot. Potassium currents were recorded by the patch-clamp technique. IKr was recorded in isolated feline cardiac myocytes. Results: Activation of the α1-AR reduces the amplitude of IhERG and IKr through a positive shift in the activation half voltage, which reduces the channel availability at physiological membrane potentials. The intracellular pathway connecting the α1-AR to the hERG channel in HEK293 cells includes activation of the Gαq protein, PLC activation and PIP2 hydrolysis, activation of PKC and direct phosphorylation of the hERG channel N-terminal. The PKC-mediated IKr channel phosphorylation and subsequent IKr reduction after α1-AR stimulation was corroborated in feline cardiac myocytes. Conclusions: These findings clarify the link between sympathetic nervous system hyperactivity and IKr reduction, one of the best characterized causes of torsades de pointes and ventricular fibrillation.
review-article	CPB453192	Bleomycin Suppresses the Proliferation and the Mobility of Human Gastric Cancer Cells Through the Smad Signaling Pathway Bleomycin Suppresses the Proliferation and the Mobility of Human Gastric Cancer Cells Through the Smad Signaling Pathway Background/Aims: Extensive studies have demonstrated that Bleomycin (BLM) is a glycopeptide antibiotic that has been used as an anticancer chemotherapeutic reagent. It can induce both single- and double-strand DNA damage, inhibit synthesis of DNA, suppress proliferation, and induce apoptosis in cancer cells. Smad signaling transducers are considered as important molecules in tumor development and progression, and may closely be related to the biological behaviors of some malignant carcinomas, including gastric cancer. Methods: The effects of different concentrations of BLM on the proliferation, cell cycle, apoptosis, migration, and invasion on gastric cancer cell lines MKN45 and AGS were assayed by using CCK-8 assay, Annexin V/PI double staining, PI staining, and transwell assay. Western blot and Immunohistochemistry were applied to analyze the potential mechanism(s). Results: BLM treatment resulted in a low proliferation, high apoptosis, low migration and invasion in MKN45 and AGS cells. Furthermore, the possible mechanisms underlying that Smad3 activity could be changed after binding with BLM, and subsequently the Smad signaling pathway had a cascade response. Conclusion: These results highlight BLM as an exciting theme for gastric cancer treatment, which may represent an effective clinical therapeutic reagent for gastric cancer patients.
meta-analysis	CPB453198	"The Clinicopathological Significance of Epigenetic Silencing of VHL Promoter and Renal Cell Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis The Clinicopathological Significance of Epigenetic Silencing of VHL Promoter and Renal Cell Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Von Hippel-Lindau gene (VHL) has been reported as a tumor-suppressor gene in some cancers. However, the association between VHL promoter hypermethylation and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) remains to be clarified. We are the first to systematically integrate published papers to assess the role of hypermethylated VHL in RCC. Methods: The potential relevant papers were searched via PubMed, Embase, EBSCO, CNKI, and Wanfang databases. The overall odds ratio (OR) and corresponding 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were calculated to evaluate the relationship between VHL promoter hypermethylation and RCC. Results: Finally, a total of 1,998 RCC patients and 294 controls from 13 eligible articles were included in this meta-analysis. Under the fixed-effects model, the pooled OR from seven studies including 596 RCC and 294 nonmalignant samples showed that VHL promoter hypermethylation was significantly higher in cancer than in controls (OR = 7.93, 95% CI = 2.84- 22.15, P &lt; 0.001). Subgroup analysis based on ethnic population and testing method revealed that hypermethylated VHL had a significantly similar OR value in different races and detection methodologies. No significant association was found between hypermethylated VHL and tumor grade, tumor stage, tumor size, histological types, and lymph node status in cancer (all P &gt; 0.05). In the current study, there was no evidence of publication bias as determined by Egger's test (all P &gt; 0.05). Conclusions: In the investigated patients, VHL promoter hypermethylation, which may play an important role in carcinogenesis of RCC, is significantly associated with an increased risk of RCC. However, VHL promoter hypermethylation is not correlated with specific clinicopathological characteristics. Additional future studies are needed to confirm our results."
review-article	CPB453200	Potential Links between Cytoskeletal Disturbances and Electroneurophysiological Dysfunctions Induced in the Central Nervous System by Inorganic Nanoparticles Potential Links between Cytoskeletal Disturbances and Electroneurophysiological Dysfunctions Induced in the Central Nervous System by Inorganic Nanoparticles Inorganic nanomaterials have been widely applied in biomedicine. However, several studies have noted that inorganic nanoparticles can enter the brain and induce cytoskeletal remodeling, as well as electrophysiological alterations, which are related to neurodevelopmental disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. The toxic effects of inorganic nanomaterials on the cytoskeleton and electrophysiology are summarized in this review. The relationships between inorganic NPs-induced cytoskeletal and electrophysiological alterations in the central nervous system remain obscure. We propose several potential relationships, including those involving N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function, ion channels, transient receptor potential channels, and the Rho pathway.
review-article	CPB453205	"The Natural Plant Product Rottlerin Activates Kv7.1/KCNE1 Channels The Natural Plant Product Rottlerin Activates Kv7.1/KCNE1 Channels Background/Aims: Acquired as well as inherited channelopathies are disorders that are caused by altered ion channel function. A family of channels whose malfunction is associated with different channelopathies is the Kv7 K+ channel family; and restoration of normal Kv7 channel function by small molecule modulators is a promising approach for treatment of these often fatal diseases. Methods: Here, we show the modulation of Kv7 channels by the natural compound Rottlerin heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and on iPSC cardiomyocytes overexpressing Kv7.1 channels. Results: We show that currents carried by Kv7.1 (EC50 = 1.48 μM), Kv7.1/KCNE1 (EC50 = 4.9 μM), and Kv7.4 (EC50 = 0.148 μM) are strongly enhanced by the compound, whereas Kv7.2, Kv7.2/Kv7.3, and Kv7.5 are not sensitive to Rottlerin. Studies on Kv7.1/KCNE1 mutants and in silico modelling indicate that Rottlerin binds to the R-L3-activator site. Rottlerin mediated activation of Kv7.1/KCNE1 channels might be a promising approach in long QT syndrome. As a proof of concept, we show that Rottlerin shortens cardiac repolarisation in iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes expressing Kv7.1.Conclusion: Rottlerin or an optimized derivative holds a potential as QT interval correcting drug."
meta-analysis	CPB453211	Is Overexpression of Ki-67 a Prognostic Biomarker of Upper Tract Urinary Carcinoma? A Retrospective Cohort Study and Meta-Analysis Is Overexpression of Ki-67 a Prognostic Biomarker of Upper Tract Urinary Carcinoma? A Retrospective Cohort Study and Meta-Analysis Background: Upper tract urinary carcinoma (UTUC) is a relatively uncommon but aggressive disease. The Ki-67 antigen is a classic marker of cellular proliferation, but there is still controversy regarding the significance and importance of Ki-67 in tumor progression. Methods: In this study, we first detected Ki-67 expression in UTUC patients by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Subsequently, we quantitatively combined the results with those from the published literature in a meta-analysis after searching several databases. Results: IHC results demonstrated that patients with muscle-invasive tumors (T2-T4) had higher Ki-67 expression than those with non-muscle-invasive tumors (Tis-T1), suggesting that high Ki-67 expression may be associated with the aggressive form of UTUC. Kaplan-Meier curves showed that patients with high Ki-67 expression had significantly poorer cancer-specific survival (CSS) and disease-free survival (DFS). Furthermore, multivariate analysis suggested that Ki-67 expression was an independent prognostic factor for CSS (hazard ratio, HR=3.196) and DFS (HR=3.517) in UTUC patients. Then, a meta-analysis of the published literature investigating Ki-67 expression and its effects on UTUC prognosis was conducted. After searching the PubMed, Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library and Scopus databases, 12 articles met the eligibility criteria for this analysis. The eligible studies included a total of 1740 patients with a mean number of 82 patients per study (range, 38-475). The combined results showed that increased Ki-67 levels were associated with poor survival and disease progression, with a pooled HR estimate of 2.081 and 2.791, respectively. In subgroup analysis, the pooled HR was statistically significant for cancer-specific survival (HR=2.276), metastasis-free survival (HR=3.008) and disease-free survival (HR=6.336). Conclusions: In conclusion, high Ki-67 expression was associated with poor survival in patients with UTUC, as well as a high risk of disease progression, although these findings need to be interpreted with caution. Large-scale, adequately designed, prospective trials are needed to further confirm the value of Ki-67 in prognosis of UTUC patients.
review-article	CPB453214	Role of MiR-215 in Hirschsprung's Disease Pathogenesis by Targeting SIGLEC-8 Role of MiR-215 in Hirschsprung's Disease Pathogenesis by Targeting SIGLEC-8 Background/Aims: Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR), known as aganglionosis, is an infrequent congenital gut motility disorder characterized by absence of enteric neurons. In this study, we focus on the role of the intronic miR-215 and its host gene isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase 2 (IARS2) in the pathogenesis of HSCR. Methods: Quantitative real time PCR and Western blot were used to detect the miRNA, mRNAs, and proteins levels. The dual-luciferase reporter gene assay confirmed the direct regulation of the specific mRNA and miRNAs in cell lines. Transwell assays, CCK8 assay, and flow cytometry were used to measure cell function of the human 293T and SH-SY5Y cells. Results: Expression levels of miR-215 in HSCR patient colon tissues were outstandingly lower than controls, which was positively correlated with expression of the host gene IARS2 and negatively correlated with predicted target gene: sialic acid binding Ig-like lectin 8 (SIGLEC-8). The loss of miR-215 inhibited cell migration and proliferation, which was consistent with the reduction of IARS2. The dual-luciferase reporter gene assay confirmed that miR-215 resulted in the inhibition of SIGLEC-8 by directly binding to the 3'-UTR of SIGLEC-8. Moreover, knocking-down SIGLEC-8 rescued the extent of suppressed cell migration and proliferation that resulted from the diminishment of miR-215. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that miR-215 acts in concert with the host gene IARS2 to affect neuron migration and proliferation through the target gene SIGLEC-8. We infer that the IARS2-miR-215-SIGLEC-8 pathway may play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of HSCR.
meta-analysis	CPB455934	WNT5A Correlates with Clinicopathological Characteristics in Gastric Cancer: a Meta-Analysis WNT5A Correlates with Clinicopathological Characteristics in Gastric Cancer: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Gastric cancer (GC), the third-leading cause of cancer death in the world, is typically diagnosed only in its advanced stages. WNT signaling has been associated with clinicopathological characteristics in diverse cancer types. But the systematic analysis of WNT5A, a member in the signaling, has not been inspected. Thus, our study used a meta-analysis to statistically associate WNT5A expression with GC clinicopathological characteristics. Methods: For a systematic literature review of GC in combination with the WNT signaling molecule WNT5A, we searched for PubMed, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science. It led to the five cohorts, in four eligible studies, consisting of 1,034 patients (617 WNT5A-positive and 417 WNT5A-negative patients). These patients were inspected by the library “meta” in R software for our meta-analysis. Results: Our meta-analysis, revealed a statistically significant associations of WNT5A-positivity with lymph node metastasis (p=0.0047), some types of Lauren diffuse subtype GCs (p&
meta-analysis	CPB464432	Assessing the Feasibility of Replacing Standard-Dose Bacillus Calmette–Guérin Immunotherapy with Other Intravesical Instillation Therapies in Bladder Cancer Patients: A Network Meta-Analysis Assessing the Feasibility of Replacing Standard-Dose Bacillus Calmette–Guérin Immunotherapy with Other Intravesical Instillation Therapies in Bladder Cancer Patients: A Network Meta-Analysis Background: Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) immunotherapy plays a key role in patients with bladder cancer. The shortage of intravesical BCG has motivated researchers to seek alternatives with equivalent efficacy If other alternative intravesical agents have equivalent efficacy compared to BCG, then it may be feasible to replace standard BCG with alternative options. Methods: We searched all relevant evidence in multiple sources and key data was extracted from included studies. Conventional and network meta-analysis were conducted so that pooled odds ratios (ORs) for the event of tumor recurrence and progression can be computed. The relative efficacy of different intravesical instillation procedures was computed by pooled odds ratios and their 95% confidence or creditable intervals. Besides, several key model assumptions were evaluated in our analysis. Results: Three intravesical instillation procedures have the potential for preventing tumor recurrence: standard-dose BCG (BCG_SD), Epirubicin (EPI) and Mitomycin C (MMC) (ORs &
meta-analysis	CPB477324	"Cardiac Cell Therapies for the Treatment of Acute Myocardial Infarction: A Meta-Analysis from Mouse Studies Cardiac Cell Therapies for the Treatment of Acute Myocardial Infarction: A Meta-Analysis from Mouse Studies Aims: Stem cell-based regenerative therapies for the treatment of ischemic myocardium are currently a subject of intensive investigation. A variety of cell populations have been demonstrated to be safe and to exert some positive effects in human Phase I and II clinical trials, however conclusive evidence of efficacy is still lacking. While the relevance of animal models for appropriate pre-clinical safety and efficacy testing with regard to application in Phase III studies continues to increase, concerns have been expressed regarding the validity of the mouse model to predict clinical results. Against the background that hundreds of preclinical studies have assessed the efficacy of numerous kinds of cell preparations - including pluripotent stem cells - for cardiac repair, we undertook a systematic re-evaluation of data from the mouse model, which initially paved the way for the first clinical trials in this field. Methods and Results: A systematic literature screen was performed to identify publications reporting results of cardiac stem cell therapies for the treatment of myocardial ischemia in the mouse model. Only peer-reviewed and placebo-controlled studies using magnet resonance imaging (MRI) for left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) assessment were included. Experimental data from 21 studies involving 583 animals demonstrate a significant improvement in LVEF of 8.59%+/- 2.36; p=.012 (95% CI, 3.7–13.8) compared with control animals. Conclusion: The mouse is a valid model to evaluate the efficacy of cell-based advanced therapies for the treatment of ischemic myocardial damage. Further studies are required to understand the mechanisms underlying stem cell based improvement of cardiac function after ischemia."
meta-analysis	CPB479840	Effectiveness and Tolerability of Anticoagulants for Thromboprophylaxis after Major Joint Surgery: a Network Meta-Analysis Effectiveness and Tolerability of Anticoagulants for Thromboprophylaxis after Major Joint Surgery: a Network Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is the most common complication after major joint surgery. VTE can easily develop into pulmonary embolism (PE), leading to cardiopulmonary dysfunction or sudden death. We aimed to comprehensively analyse the thromboprophylactic drugs that are used to prevent thrombosis and reduce bleeding risk. Methods: We searched the PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases for randomized controlled trials that evaluated the use of thromboprophylaxis after major joint surgery. The major outcomes were the numbers of all-cause VTE and bleeding events, and the secondary outcomes were major VTE and major bleeding/clinically relevant non-major bleeding events. A random-effects network meta-analysis was used to assess the effectiveness and tolerability of each anticoagulant after major joint surgery. Results: We included 104 trials that assessed 110,643 patients in our meta-analysis. The cluster ranking of major outcomes indicated that FXI-ASO, ardeparin, aspirin, and apixaban were ideal for preventing all-cause VTE and avoiding all bleeding events. Nadroparin, recombinant hirudin, and rivaroxaban effectively inhibited VTE but were associated with a high risk of bleeding. For secondary outcomes, we found that betrixaban, dalteparin, warfarin, and eribaxaban were ideal for preventing major VTE and reducing major bleeding, while rivaroxaban effectively inhibited major VTE but was associated with a high risk of major/clinically relevant non-major bleeding. A sensitivity analysis showed that the effect of apixaban was more robust for major outcomes, while aspirin was more robust for preventing all-cause bleeding events. In secondary outcomes, the effect of warfarin was more robust, while apixaban was still considered an ideal treatment to inhibit major VTE and bleeding events. Conclusion: Our study indicates that FXI-ASO, ardeparin, aspirin, and apixaban are ideal for preventing all-cause VTE and reducing all bleeding events, among which apixaban is the most reliable. Betrixaban, dalteparin, warfarin, and eribaxaban are ideal for preventing major VTE and reducing major/clinically relevant non-major bleeding events, among which warfarin is the most reliable.
meta-analysis	CPB486810	"Maternal Vitamin D Status and Risk of Gestational Diabetes: a Meta-Analysis Maternal Vitamin D Status and Risk of Gestational Diabetes: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Whether maternal vitamin D deficiency is associated with gestational diabetes remains controversial. This meta-analysis aimed to systematically evaluate published evidence on the association between maternal vitamin D status and the risk of gestational diabetes. Methods: We retrieved relevant articles from the PubMed, Medline and Embase databases up to May 2017 for observational studies investigating the association between vitamin D status and the risk of gestational diabetes. Odds ratios (OR) or risk ratios (RR) from individual studies were pooled using the fixed and random effect models. Results: The meta-analysis of 29 observational studies included 28,982 participants, of which 4,634 were diagnosed with gestational diabetes, and showed that maternal vitamin D insufficiency was associated with a significantly increased risk of gestational diabetes by 39% (pooled OR = 1.39, 95%CI = 1.20-1.60) with moderate heterogeneity (I2 = 50.2%; P = 0.001). Moreover, the 25(OH)D level was significantly lower in gestational diabetes cases than in controls with a pooled effect of -4.79 nmol/L (95% CI = -6.43, -3.15). Significant heterogeneity was also detected (I2 = 65.0%, P &"
meta-analysis	CPB487164	"Prognostic Role of Tumor-Infiltrating Lymphocytes in Esophagus Cancer: a Meta-Analysis Prognostic Role of Tumor-Infiltrating Lymphocytes in Esophagus Cancer: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Several studies have verified the correlation between tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and survival of patients with esophagus cancer (EC). However, the prognostic role of TILs is still controversial. Therefore, we performed this meta-analysis. Methods: We searched PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library (last update by August 30, 2017) to identify studies assessing the effect of TILs on survival of patients with EC. Pooled hazard ratios (HRs) for overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) and cancer specific survival (CSS) were estimated using fixed-effects models or random-effects models, which depends on the heterogeneity. Results: Data from 22 observational studies including 2909 patients were summarized. Pooled analysis indicated that generalized TILs were favorable prognostic markers for OS in patients with EC (pooled HR = 0.48; 95% CI = 0.38-0.61; P &"
meta-analysis	CPB487291	A Meta-Analysis of the Diagnostic Accuracy of Circular RNAs in Digestive System Malignancy A Meta-Analysis of the Diagnostic Accuracy of Circular RNAs in Digestive System Malignancy Background/Aims: Circular RNAs (circRNAs), a novel class of noncoding RNAs, have been found to be dysregulated in various cancers. However, the clinical application value of these circRNAs in digestive system cancers remains to be clarified. We aimed to comprehensively explore the potential role of circRNAs as diagnostic indicators in digestive system malignancies. Methods: Relevant studies were systematically retrieved from PubMed, Web of Science and the Cochrane Library. The data that were required to complete 2 × 2 contingency tables were obtained from the included studies. Stratified analyses by cancer type, sample size and publication year were performed. Results: Thirteen studies with 2,276 individuals were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled sensitivity and specificity of circRNAs in the diagnosis of digestive system malignancy were 0.72 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.65-0.77] and 0.77 (95% CI: 0.72-0.81), respectively. The overall positive likelihood ratio was 3.09 (95% CI: 2.64-3.62), and the overall negative likelihood ratio was 0.37 (95% CI: 0.31-0.44). The pooled diagnostic odds ratio was 8.38 (95% CI: 6.86-10.25), and the overall area under the curve was 0.81 (95% CI: 0.77-0.84), indicating good discriminative ability of circRNAs as biomarkers for digestive system malignancy. Conclusion: circRNAs distinguish patients with digestive system cancer from controls with relatively high diagnostic accuracy. circRNAs may be used as potential biomarkers for the diagnosis of digestive system malignancy.
meta-analysis	CPB487294	Prognostic Role of High Gal-9 Expression in Solid Tumours: a Meta-Analysis Prognostic Role of High Gal-9 Expression in Solid Tumours: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Recently, many studies have demonstrated that galectin-9 (Gal-9) exhibits altered expression and has a close association with metastasis and recurrence in various cancers. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to assess the prognostic role of Gal-9 expression in solid tumours. Methods: We searched PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science until June 2017 and identified fourteen eligible studies containing 2,408 patients to include in the meta-analysis. Results: The pooled results indicated that higher Gal-9 expression in cancer tissue associated with an improved CSS (HR=0.48, 95% CI 0.39-0.58). In the subgroup analysis, a significant relationship was observed between higher Gal-9 expression and both CSS (HR=0.48, 95% CI 0.39-0.59) and OS (HR=0.62, 95% CI 0.49-0.78) in digestive cancers. Conclusions: The findings of this meta-analysis highlight the role of Gal-9 as a useful clinical prognostic biomarker, which may facilitate the treatment of patients with solid tumours.
meta-analysis	CPB487734	Prognostic Role of Pretreatment Plasma D-Dimer in Patients with Solid Tumors: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Prognostic Role of Pretreatment Plasma D-Dimer in Patients with Solid Tumors: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Elevated pretreatment plasma D-dimer level has been reported as an unfavorable prognostic indicator in several malignancies. The aim of this meta-analysis was to evaluate the prognostic value of elevated D-dimer level in solid tumors. Methods: A comprehensive search of electronic databases up to June 10, 2017 was carried out by two independent reviewers. We included studies exploring the association between pretreatment plasma D-dimer level and patients’ survival outcomes in solid tumors. Overall survival (OS) was regarded as primary outcome and progression-free survival (PFS), disease-free survival (DFS) as well as cancer-specific survival (CSS) were chosen as secondary outcomes. Hazard ratio and 95% confidence interval (CI) were extracted directly or indirectly from included studies. Results: 49 studies with 13001 patients were included in our meta-analysis. Elevated D-dimer was markedly associated with poor OS (pooled HR = 1.90, 95% CI = 1.63 - 2.20, P &
meta-analysis	CPB488267	Two Common MTHFR Gene Polymorphisms (C677T and A1298C) and Fetal Congenital Heart Disease Risk: An Updated Meta-Analysis with Trial Sequential Analysis Two Common MTHFR Gene Polymorphisms (C677T and A1298C) and Fetal Congenital Heart Disease Risk: An Updated Meta-Analysis with Trial Sequential Analysis Background/Aims: Published studies indicated that the MTHFR gene polymorphisms C677T and A1298C are associated with congenital heart disease (CHD) risk in children, but obtained inconsistent results. Our study aims to reach a more accurate association between these two polymorphisms and CHD risk. Methods: Eligible studies were obtained by screening the PubMed, Embase, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wan Fang and VIP databases based on designed searching strategy. The odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated. Moreover, a trial sequential analysis was introduced to confirm the positive results and an RNA secondary structure analysis was also applied to discover the potential molecular mechanism. Results: Based on thirty-two published articles, involving 6988 congenital heart disease subjects and 7579 healthy controls, the pooled results from the C677T polymorphism in the fetal population showed increased risks in allelic model (OR=1.32, 95%CI=1.14-1.53), recessive model (OR=1.69, 95%CI=1.25-2.30), dominant model (OR=1.35, 95%CI=1.11-1.64), heterozygote model (OR=1.20, 95%CI=1.01-1.41) and homozygote model (OR=1.75, 95%CI=1.31-2.33). An increased risk was only detected in the A1298C polymorphism in the overall fetal popalation in a recessive model (OR=1.42, 95%CI=1.10-1.84). In the subgroup stratified by region, sample size, genotyping method and source of controls, the increased risks were widely observed in both the C677T and A1298C polymorphisms with CHD risk. Furthermore, trial sequential analysis confirmed our positive results, and the RNA secondary structure analysis detected the changes in the RNA secondary structure caused by the mutant 677T allele and 1298C allele. Conclusion: In summary, we found that the MTHFR C677T polymorphism is associated with a significant increased risk in congenital heart disease in the fetal population. Moreover, an increased risk in the CC genotype of MTHFR A1298C polymorphism was observed, but the protective role of the 1298C allele needs further study.
meta-analysis	CPB488268	Clinical Significance of Retinoic Acid Receptor Beta Promoter Methylation in Prostate Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Clinical Significance of Retinoic Acid Receptor Beta Promoter Methylation in Prostate Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Retinoic acid receptor beta (RAR beta) is a retinoic acid receptor gene that has been shown to play key roles during multiple cancer processes, including cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration and invasion. Numerous studies have found that methylation of the RAR beta promoter contributed to the occurrence and development of malignant tumors. However, the connection between RAR beta promoter methylation and prostate cancer (PCa) remains unknown. This meta-analysis evaluated the clinical significance of RAR beta promoter methylation in PCa. Materials and Methods: We searched all published records relevant to RAR beta and PCa in a series of databases, including PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, ISI Web of Science and CNKI. The rates of RAR beta promoter methylation in the PCa and control groups (including benign prostatic hyperplasia and normal prostate tissues) were summarized. In addition, we evaluated the source region of available samples and the methods used to detect methylation. To compare the incidence and variation in RAR beta promoter methylation in PCa and non-PCa tissues, the odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated accordingly. All the data were analyzed with the statistical software STATA 12.0. Results: Based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 15 articles assessing 1,339 samples were further analyzed. These data showed that the RAR beta promoter methylation rates in PCa tissues were significantly higher than the rates in the non-PCa group (OR=21.65, 95% CI: 9.27-50.57). Subgroup analysis according to the source region of samples showed that heterogeneity in Asia was small (I2=0.0%, P=0.430). Additional subgroup analysis based on the method used to detect RAR beta promoter methylation showed that the heterogeneity detected by MSP (methylation-specific PCR) was relatively small (I2=11.3%, P=0.343). Conclusion: Although studies reported different rates for RAR beta promoter methylation in PCa tissues, the total analysis demonstrated that RAR beta promoter methylation may be correlated with PCa carcinogenesis and that the RAR beta gene is particularly susceptible. Additional studies with sufficient data are essential to further evaluate the clinical features and prognostic utility of RAR beta promoter methylation in PCa.
meta-analysis	CPB488627	Prognostic Significance of LncRNA PVT1 and Its Potential Target Gene Network in Human Cancers: a Comprehensive Inquiry Based Upon 21 Cancer Types and 9972 Cases Prognostic Significance of LncRNA PVT1 and Its Potential Target Gene Network in Human Cancers: a Comprehensive Inquiry Based Upon 21 Cancer Types and 9972 Cases Background/Aims: Whether the level of long noncoding RNA plasmacytoma variant translocation 1 gene (lncRNA PVT1) expression influences the clinical development and outcome of human cancers has not been thoroughly elucidated to date. Inconsistencies still exist regarding the associations between PVT1 and the clinicopathological features, including patient survival data. Additionally, the regulatory mechanism of PVT1 among human cancers remains unclear. Methods: we conducted a comprehensive inquiry to verify the implication of PVT1 expression in cancer patients by conducting a meta-analysis of 19 selected studies and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database to examine the relationship between PVT1 expression and both the prognosis and clinicopathological features of cancer patients using STATA 12.0. In addition, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses of the potential mRNA target genes of PVT1 gathered from TANRIC and Multi Experiment Matrix (MEM) were performed. Results: The level of PVT1 expression in tumor tissues was higher than in paired non-cancer tissues and was significantly associated with a poorer prognosis in cancer patients. Additionally, overexpression of PVT1 was significantly correlated with histological differentiation, tumor (T) classification, lymph node (N) classification and TNM stages. Furthermore, a total of 462 validated target genes were identified, and the GO and KEGG analyses demonstrated that the validated targets of PVT1 were significantly enriched in several pathways, including the GnRH signaling pathway, the Cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction pathway, the Inflammatory mediator regulation of TRP channels pathway, and the Neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathway. Conclusion: PVT1 may serve as a potential biomarker associated with the progression and prognosis of human cancers.
meta-analysis	CPB488823	Clinical Significance of miR-210 and its Prospective Signaling Pathways in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: Evidence from Gene Expression Omnibus and the Cancer Genome Atlas Data Mining with 2763 Samples and Validation via Real-Time Quantitative PCR Clinical Significance of miR-210 and its Prospective Signaling Pathways in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: Evidence from Gene Expression Omnibus and the Cancer Genome Atlas Data Mining with 2763 Samples and Validation via Real-Time Quantitative PCR Background/Aims: Since the function of microRNA (miR)-210 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unclear, we aimed to explore the clinical significance of miR-210 in NSCLC. Methods: NSCLC-related data from 1673 samples on Gene Expression Omnibus and 1090 samples on The Cancer Genome Atlas were obtained and analyzed. The expression level of miR-210 was validated via real-time quantitative PCR analysis with 125 paired clinical samples. A meta-analysis was performed to generate a comprehensive understanding of miR-210 expression and its clinical significance in NSCLC. In addition, bioinformatics analysis was also conducted to reveal the potential underlying mechanism of miR-210 action in NSCLC. Results: miR-210 expression was consistently elevated in NSCLC solid tissue samples. However, its expression was controversial in easily obtained body fluids (i.e., blood, plasma, and serum). Moreover, an overall pooled meta-analysis implied a comparatively higher level of miR-210 expression in NSCLC cancerous tissue than in normal control tissue (P &
meta-analysis	CPB489072	CRISPR-Cas9-Mediated Silencing of CD44 in Human Highly Metastatic Osteosarcoma Cells CRISPR-Cas9-Mediated Silencing of CD44 in Human Highly Metastatic Osteosarcoma Cells Background/Aims: Metastasis is the major cause of death in patients with osteosarcoma. There is an urgent need to identify molecular markers that promote metastasis. Cluster of differentiation 44 is a receptor for hyaluronic acid (HA) and HA-binding has been proven to participate in various biological tumor activities, including tumor progression and metastasis. Methods: We performed a meta-analysis to investigate the relationship between CD44 expression, survival, and metastasis in patients with osteosarcoma. We then utilized the CRISPR-Cas9 system to specifically silence CD44 in highly metastatic human osteosarcoma cells (MNNG/HOS and 143B) and further determined the functional effects of CD44 knockout in these cells. Results: The meta-analysis demonstrated that a high level of CD44 may predict poor survival and higher potential of metastasis in patients with osteosarcoma. The expression of CD44 in highly metastatic human osteosarcoma cell lines was efficiently blocked by CRISPR-Cas9. When CD44 was silenced, the proliferation and spheroid formation of these osteosarcoma cells was inhibited under 3-D culture conditions. Furthermore, the migratory and invasive functions were also impaired in these highly metastatic osteosarcoma cells. Conclusion: These results suggest that developing new strategies to target CD44 in osteosarcoma may prevent metastasis and improve the clinical outcome of osteosarcoma patients.
meta-analysis	CPB489111	"MicroRNA-34a Inhibition of the TLR Signaling Pathway Via CXCL10 Suppresses Breast Cancer Cell Invasion and Migration MicroRNA-34a Inhibition of the TLR Signaling Pathway Via CXCL10 Suppresses Breast Cancer Cell Invasion and Migration Background/Aims: Breast cancer (BC) starts as a local disease, but it can metastasize to the lymph nodes and distant organs. However, the metastatic process is still poorly understood. The mRNA microarray datasets GSE26910 and GSE33447 show that CXCL10 is up-regulated in BC, and the microRNA microarray dataset GSE38167 and a network meta-analysis of microRNA expression profile studies in human BC suggest that microRNA-34a (miR-34a) is down-regulated in BC. CXCL10 was predicted as a target of miR-34a by microRNA.org. In this study, we uncovered a CXCL10-independent mechanism by which miR-34a exerts its antimetastatic activity in BC. Methods: To investigate the clinical significance of miR-34a in BC, we collected cancer tissues and paracancerous tissues from 258 patients with BC. In addition, a series of inhibitors, mimics, and siRNAs was introduced into MCF-7 and T47D cells to validate the regulatory mechanisms by which miR-34a regulates CXCL10. Next, to better understand the pivotal role of TLR signaling pathway inhibition in MCF-7 and T47D cells, we blocked the TLR signaling pathway using OxPAPC, an antagonist of TLR signaling. Results: Among BC patients, miR-34a was down-regulated, CXCL10 was up-regulated, and the TLR signaling pathway was activated. Determination of luciferase activity revealed that CXCL10 was a target of miR-34a. Through gain- and loss-of-function studies, miR-34a was demonstrated to negatively regulate CXCL10; inhibit activation of the TLR signaling pathway; significantly suppress in vitro cell proliferation, migration, and invasion; and induce apoptosis. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that functional loss or suppression of the tumor suppressor CXCL10 due to induction of miR-34a leads to inhibition of the TLR signaling pathway during breast tumorigenesis, providing a novel target for the molecular treatment of breast malignancies."
meta-analysis	CPB489148	"Urinary and Blood MicroRNA-126 and -770 are Potential Noninvasive Biomarker Candidates for Diabetic Nephropathy: a Meta-Analysis Urinary and Blood MicroRNA-126 and -770 are Potential Noninvasive Biomarker Candidates for Diabetic Nephropathy: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Diabetic nephropathy (DN), a major diabetic microvascular complication, has a long and growing list of biomarkers, including microRNA biomarkers, which have not been consistent across preclinical and clinical studies. This meta-analysis aims to identify significant blood- and urine-incident microRNAs as diagnostic/prognostic biomarker candidates for DN. Methods: PubMed, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library were searched from their earliest records through 12th Dec 2016. Relevant publications for the meta-analysis included (1) human participants; (2) microRNAs in blood and urine; (3) DN studies; and (4) English language. Four reviewers, including two physicians, independently and blindly extracted published data regarding microRNA profiles in blood and/or urine from subjects with diabetic nephropathy. A random-effect model was used to pool the data. Statistical associations between diabetic nephropathy and urinary or blood microRNA expression levels were assessed. Results: Fourteen out of 327 studies (n=2,747 patients) were selected. Blood or urinary microRNA expression data of diabetic nephropathy were pooled for this analysis. The hsa-miR-126 family was significantly (OR: 0.57; 95% CI: 0.44-0.74; p-value &"
meta-analysis	CPB489443	Diagnostic Value of Nineteen Different Imaging Methods for Patients with Breast Cancer: a Network Meta-Analysis Diagnostic Value of Nineteen Different Imaging Methods for Patients with Breast Cancer: a Network Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: We performed a network meta-analysis (NMA) to investigate and compare the diagnostic value of 19 different imaging methods used for breast cancer (BC). Methods: Cochrane Library, PubMed and EMBASE were searched to collect the relevant literature from the inception of the study until November 2016. A combination of direct and indirect comparisons was performed using an NMA to evaluate the combined odd ratios (OR) and draw the surface under the cumulative ranking curves (SUCRA) of the diagnostic value of different imaging methods for BC. Results: A total of 39 eligible diagnostic tests regarding 19 imaging methods (mammography [MG], breast-specific gamma imaging [BSGI], color Doppler sonography [CD], contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging [CE-MRI], digital breast tomosynthesis [DBT], fluorodeoxyglucose positron-emission tomography/computed tomography [FDG PET/CT], fluorodeoxyglucose positron-emission tomography [FDG-PET], full field digital mammography [FFDM], handheld breast ultrasound [HHUS], magnetic resonance imaging [MRI], automated breast volume scanner [ABUS], magnetic resonance mammography [MRM], scintimammography [SMM], single photon emission computed tomography scintimammography [SPECT SMM], ultrasound elastography [UE], ultrasonography [US], mammography + ultrasonography [MG + US], mammography + scintimammography [MG + SMM], and ultrasound elastography + ultrasonography [UE + US]) were included in the study. According to this network meta-analysis, in comparison to the MG method, the CE-MRI, MRI, MRM, MG + SMM and UE + US methods exhibited relatively higher sensitivity, and the specificity of the FDG PET/CT method was higher, while the BSGI and MRI methods exhibited higher accuracy. Conclusion: The results from this NMA indicate that the diagnostic value of the BSGI, MG + SMM, MRI and CE-MRI methods for BC were relatively higher in terms of sensitivity, specificity and accuracy.
meta-analysis	CPB489586	Clinicopathological and Prognostic Significance of Cancer Stem Cell Markers in Ovarian Cancer Patients: Evidence from 52 Studies Clinicopathological and Prognostic Significance of Cancer Stem Cell Markers in Ovarian Cancer Patients: Evidence from 52 Studies Background/Aims: Relevant markers of cancer stem cells (CSCs) may serve as commonly used biomarkers of ovarian cancer (OC). However, their actual clinicopathological and prognostic significance remains inconclusive. Thus, we conducted a meta-analysis to quantitatively evaluate the association between the expression of CSC-relevant markers (ALDH1, CD117, CD133, and CD44) and OC. Methods: We used an odds ratio (OR) and a hazard ratio (HR) with a 95% confidence interval (CI) to estimate the effects by analyzing 52 studies from a literature search. Heterogeneity and sensitivity were evaluated, as well. Publication bias was assessed using funnel plots and Egger tests. Results: ALDH1 expression was statistically associated with FIGO stage (OR=1.872, 95%CI=1.14-3.076, P=0.013) and lymph invasion (OR=2.78, 95%CI=1.08-7.152, P=0.034). CD117 expression was significantly associated with FIGO stage (OR=2.01, 95%CI=1.35-2.98, P=0.001). CD133 expression was correlated with FIGO stage (OR=3.410, 95%CI=2.196-5.294, P&
meta-analysis	CPB489953	Association of Five Snps in Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 and Cancer Susceptibility: Evidence from 67 Studies Association of Five Snps in Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 and Cancer Susceptibility: Evidence from 67 Studies Background/Aims: CTLA-4 polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to various cancers, but the results are often conflicting. Hence, we performed a comprehensive meta-analysis to quantitatively investigate the association between CTLA-4 polymorphisms (rs231775, rs4553808，rs5742909, rs3087243 or rs733618) and cancer risk. Methods: Data were collected from PubMed and Web of Science. A total of 67 case-control studies were selected for quantitative analysis. Stata (Version 12) software was used to calculate the odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) to evaluate the strength of the associations. Subgroup meta-analysis was conducted based on ethnicity and cancer type. Heterogeneity tests, sensitivity analysis, and publication bias assessments were also performed. Results: rs231775, rs4553808 and rs5742909 but not rs3087243 and rs733618 were significantly related to cancer risk. In analyses stratified by ethnicity, both rs231775 and rs4553808 were significant susceptibility polymorphisms in an Asian population but not in a Caucasian population. Moreover, there were stronger associations between the rs231775 polymorphism and increased risk of bone, breast, liver, head and neck and pancreatic cancers. Additionally, rs4553808 was associated with significantly increased susceptibility to breast cancer and head and neck cancer. Conclusion: rs231775, rs4553808 and rs5742909 may be used as predictive genetic biomarkers for cancer predisposition. Combined detection of CTLA-4 SNPs could be a useful tool for prediction of cancer susceptibility in clinical practice.
meta-analysis	CPB490832	"Statins and Thyroid Carcinoma: a Meta-Analysis Statins and Thyroid Carcinoma: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Experimental studies have reported the antineoplastic effects of statins in thyroid carcinoma; however, observational studies suggested that statins might increase the risk of thyroid carcinoma. Therefore, this study evaluated the antineoplastic effects of statins in both in vitro studies and animal models, as well as the epidemiological evidence. Methods: Databases—PubMed, Cochrane Library, SinoMed, CNKI, Wanfang, and clinical trial registries— were searched. A meta-analysis was performed with sufficiently homogeneous studies. Eighteen articles were involved. Results: In in vitro studies, statins showed a concentration-dependent inhibition of cell line growth (weighted mean difference –34.68, 95% confidence interval –36.53 to –32.83). A significant efficacy of statin-induced apoptosis was observed (weighted mean difference [95% confidence interval]: 24 h, 57.50 [55.98–59.03]; 48 h, 23.43 [22.19–24.66]; 72 h, 51.29 [47.52–55.07]). Early apoptosis was increased in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In in vivo antitumor studies, lovastatin inhibited tumor growth, as shown by a reduction in tumor volume. However, two clinical studies showed discordant results from the experimental studies. Conclusion: Experimental studies revealed the antineoplastic efficacy of statins but statins were associated with thyroid carcinoma in clinical studies. This discrepancy may be due to the different concentrations of statins used and the effects of hyperlipidemia interventions, and thus further study is required."
review-article	CPB492704	Stem Cell Therapy in Heart Diseases – Cell Types, Mechanisms and Improvement Strategies Stem Cell Therapy in Heart Diseases – Cell Types, Mechanisms and Improvement Strategies A large number of clinical trials have shown stem cell therapy to be a promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. Since the first transplantation into human patients, several stem cell types have been applied in this field, including bone marrow derived stem cells, cardiac progenitors as well as embryonic stem cells and their derivatives. However, results obtained from clinical studies are inconsistent and stem cell-based improvement of heart performance and cardiac remodeling was found to be quite limited. In order to optimize stem cell efficiency, it is crucial to elucidate the underlying mechanisms mediating the beneficial effects of stem cell transplantation. Based on these mechanisms, researchers have developed different improvement strategies to boost the potency of stem cell repair and to generate the “next generation” of stem cell therapeutics. Moreover, since cardiovascular diseases are complex disorders including several disease patterns and pathologic mechanisms it may be difficult to provide a uniform therapeutic intervention for all subgroups of patients. Therefore, future strategies should aim at more personalized SC therapies in which individual disease parameters influence the selection of optimal cell type, dosage and delivery approach.
review-article	CPB492878	"The Pinx1 Gene Downregulates Telomerase and Inhibits Proliferation of CD133+ Cancer Stem Cells Isolated from a Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Cell Line by Regulating Trfs and Mad1/C-Myc/p53 Pathways The Pinx1 Gene Downregulates Telomerase and Inhibits Proliferation of CD133+ Cancer Stem Cells Isolated from a Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Cell Line by Regulating Trfs and Mad1/C-Myc/p53 Pathways Background/Aims: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are important factors for the continuous growth, recurrence, and metastasis of malignant tumors. They are responsible for the ineffectiveness of traditional radiotherapy and chemotherapy toward malignant tumors. Currently, stem cells or side-population cells have been isolated from many cancer cell lines and malignant tumor tissues, including nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Exploring the biological characteristics of CSCs for CSC-targeted therapy has gained importance. CSCs possess higher telomerase activity; thus, the use of the gene encoding telomerase inhibitor PinX1 gene to target telomerase in CSCs and inhibit proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of CSCs has become an important means for the treatment of malignant tumors. PinX1 may regulate complex pathways, including TRF1, Mad1/c-Myc, and p53. Methods: In this study, nasopharyngeal CD133+ CSCs were sorted using CD133 immunomagnetic beads by flow cytometry The successful isolation of CD133+ CSCs was confirmed by examining their surface markers, namely CD44, NaNOG, and SOX2 as well as their ability to undergo in vivo tumorigenesis and in vitro sphere formation, proliferation, migration, and invasion. In addition, CD133+ CSCs were transfected with the constructed PinX1 overexpression plasmid or siRNA and the resulting effects on their proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis were detected using cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), transwell assay, and scratch test, respectively. Furthermore, their effects on mRNA and protein levels of TRF1, TRF2, Mad1, c-Myc, and p53 were examined using quantitative real-time PCR and western blot, respectively. Results: The overexpression of PinX1 in CD133+ CSCs significantly decreased hTERT (P &"
review-article	CPB492978	The Dysregulated Expression of KCNQ1OT1 and Its Interaction with Downstream Factors miR-145/CCNE2 in Breast Cancer Cells The Dysregulated Expression of KCNQ1OT1 and Its Interaction with Downstream Factors miR-145/CCNE2 in Breast Cancer Cells Background/Aims: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has revealed abundant long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) that have been characterized as critical components of cancer biology in humans. The present study aims to investigate the role of the lncRNA KCNQ1OT1 in breast cancer (BRCA) as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms and functions of KCNQ1OT1 involved in the progression of BRCA. Methods: The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and StarBase v2.0 were used to obtain the required gene data. Dual luciferase reporter gene assays were conducted to verify the relevant intermolecular target relationships. QRT-PCR and Western blot were performed to measure the expression levels of different molecules. Cell proliferation was detected by using the MTT and colony formation assays, while cell migration and invasion were examined by transwell assay. Variations in cell apoptosis and cell cycle were determined through flow cytometry. A tumor xenograft model was applied to assess tumor growth in vivo. Results: KCNQ1OT1 was found to be remarkably highly expressed in BRCA tissues and cells. KCNQ1OT1 modulated CCNE2 through sponging miR-145 in BRCA. KCNQ1OT1 promoted tumor growth in vivo by regulating miR-145/CCNE2. Conclusion: The KCNQ1OT1/miR-145/CCNE2 axis plays a critical regulatory role in BRCA, potentially giving rise to BRCA tumorigenesis and progression. These findings provide valuable evidence for improving the diagnosis and treatment of BRCA in the future.
case-report	CPB493653	Apelin-13 Administration Protects Against LPS-Induced Acute Lung Injury by Inhibiting NF-κB Pathway and NLRP3 Inflammasome Activation Apelin-13 Administration Protects Against LPS-Induced Acute Lung Injury by Inhibiting NF-κB Pathway and NLRP3 Inflammasome Activation Background/Aims: Acute lung injury (ALI) is induced by a variety of external and internal factors and leads to acute progressive respiratory failure. Previous studies have shown that apelin-13 can decrease the acute lung injury induced by LPS, but the specific mechanism is unclear. Therefore, a mouse lung injury model and a cell model were designed to explore the mechanism of how apelin-13 alleviates the acute lung injury caused by LPS. Methods: The effect of apelin-13 on LPS-induced structural damage was determined by H&
review-article	CPB493957	Gab2 Ablation Reverses the Stemness of HER2-Overexpressing Breast Cancer Cells Gab2 Ablation Reverses the Stemness of HER2-Overexpressing Breast Cancer Cells Background/Aims: HER2 has been implicated in mammary tumorigenesis as well as aggressive tumor growth and metastasis. Its overexpression is related to a poor prognosis and chemoresistance in breast cancer patients. Although Grb2-associated binding protein 2 (Gab2) is important in the development and progression of human cancer, its effects and mechanisms in HER2-overexpressing breast cancer are unclear. Methods: Clone formation and MTT assays were used to examine cell proliferation. To detect the effect of Gab2 on the stemness of breast cancer cells, we used flow cytometry, a sphere formation assay, real-time PCR, and western blot. An animal model was created to validate the effect of Gab2 on tumor growth in vivo. Tissue slides were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Results: Knockdown of Gab2 suppressed PI3K/AKT and MAPK/ERK pathway activity. Gab2 ablation also reduced the stemness of HER2-overexpressing breast cancer cells. In vivo, knockdown of Gab2 inhibited tumor growth. Conclusion: This study unveils a potential function of Gab2 in HER2-overexpressing breast cancer cells. Gab2 might be a potential target in the clinical therapy of HER2-overexpressing breast carcinoma.
review-article	CPB494001	"Mechanism for the Decision of Ovarian Surface Epithelial Stem Cells to Undergo Neo-Oogenesis or Ovarian Tumorigenesis Mechanism for the Decision of Ovarian Surface Epithelial Stem Cells to Undergo Neo-Oogenesis or Ovarian Tumorigenesis The ovary is surrounded by a whitish layer of mesodermally derived ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) that lines the intraembryonic celom and comprises simple squamous to cuboidal to low pseudostratified columnar epithelial cells. Its integrity is maintained by simple desmosomes, incomplete tight junctions, several integrins and cadherins. Recent research has found that ovarian stem cells (OSCs) exist within the OSE and may be responsible for both neo-oogenesis and ovarian cancer during adult life. The factors determining whether OSCs undergo neo-oogenesis or ovarian cancer are of great interest to researchers and clinicians. Accumulating evidence suggests the mechanism for the decision of ovarian surface epithelial stem cells to undergo either neo-oogenesis or ovarian cancer transformation may comprise both internal and external factors. Here, we review recent progress on how the internal factors, including genes, signaling pathways and lncRNA: OSE stem cells mediate the development and progression of ovarian cancer through various genes such as p53, KRAS, BRAF, and PTEN, and mutations in PIK3CA, and through various signaling pathways, including TGF-B pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, Notch signaling pathway, NF-kB signal transducer and transcriptional activator 3 (STAT3) pathway and Hedghog (HH) pathway. A series of expressions of IncRNA have changed in epithelial ovarian cancer tissues and cell lines compared to normal ovarian tissues and cell lines. As well as external factors, including incessant ovulation, gonadotropin and chronicinflammation: Frequent ovulation, without long-term dormancy, increases the risk of illness, because repeated rupture and repair at the ovulation site provides an opportunity for the accumulation of genetic aberrations; FSH affects all aspects of ovarian cancer metastasis, such as inhibition of apoptosis, through Induction of increased expression of VEGFA (VEGF) to support tumor growth, promote vascular growth, and possibly alter certain oncogenic pathways, thereby promoting proliferation and invasive phenotypic inflammation contributes to tumorigenesis, which help determine whether OSCs undergo neo-oogenesis or ovarian tumorigenesis. Understanding this issue is critical for developing novel strategies for premature ovarian failure and ovarian cancer prevention and therapy."
research-article	CPB495052	Microarray Profiling of TGF-β1-Induced Long Non-Coding RNA Expression Patterns in Human Lung Bronchial Epithelial BEAS-2B Cells Microarray Profiling of TGF-β1-Induced Long Non-Coding RNA Expression Patterns in Human Lung Bronchial Epithelial BEAS-2B Cells Background/Aims: TGF-β1 mediated radiation-induced bystander effects (RIBE) have been linked with malignant transformation and tumorigenesis. However, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Methods: To reveal new molecules of regulatory functions in this process, lncRNA microarray was performed to profile both lncRNA and mRNA expression patterns in human lung bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells treated with TGF-β1 at a concentration measured in the medium conditioned by directly irradiated BEAS-2B cells. The potential functions of the differentially expressed lncRNAs were predicted by GO and KEGG pathway analyses of their co-expressed mRNAs. Cis- and trans-regulation of the lncRNAs were analyzed and the interaction networks were constructed using Cytoscape. qRT-PCR was conducted to validate the results of microarray profiling. CCK-8 assay was employed for functional validation of 3 identified lncRNAs. Results: 224 lncRNAs were found to be dysregulated, among which 6 lncRNAs were chosen for expression validation by qRT-PCR assay. Pathway analyses showed that differentially expressed lncRNAs are highly correlated with cell proliferation, transformation, migration, etc. Trans-regulation analyses showed that the differentially expressed lncRNAs most likely participate in the pathways regulated by four transcriptional factors, FOS, STAT3, RAD21 and E2F1, which have been identified to be involved in the modulation of oncogenic transformation, cell cycle progression, genomic instability, etc. lnc-THEMIS-2 and lnc-ITGB6-4, predicted to be regulated by STAT3 and E2F1 respectively, were found to rescue the decrease of cell viability induced by TGF-β1 treatment. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the differentially expressed lncRNAs induced by TGF-β1 play crucial roles in the oncogenic transformation and tumorigenesis, which provide a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms related to tumorigensis induced by LD/LDR radiations.
research-article	CPB495053	Ganoderic Acid A Protects Rat H9c2 Cardiomyocytes from Hypoxia-Induced Injury via Up-Regulating miR-182-5p Ganoderic Acid A Protects Rat H9c2 Cardiomyocytes from Hypoxia-Induced Injury via Up-Regulating miR-182-5p Background/Aims: Ganoderic acid A (GAA) isolated from Ganoderma lucidum, shows various benefit activities, such as anti-tumor activity, anti-HIV activity and hepatoprotective activity. However, the potential effects of GAA on hypoxia-induced injury of cardiomyocytes are still unclear. In this study, we aimed to reveal the effects of GAA on hypoxic-induced H9c2 cell injury, as well as potential underlying molecular mechanisms. Methods: Rat H9c2 cardiomyocytes were cultured in hypoxia condition with different doses of GAA. Cell viability and apoptosis were detected by CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry, respectively. qRT-PCR was performed to assess the expression levels of microRNA-182-5p (miR-182-5p) and phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN). Cell transfection was conducted to change the expression levels of miR-182-5p and PTEN in H9c2 cells. Finally, protein levels of key factors involved in cell proliferation, cell apoptosis and PTEN/PI3K/AKT pathway were evaluated using western blotting. Results: Hypoxia treatment significantly induced H9c2 cell viability loss and apoptosis. GAA incubation remarkably protected H9c2 cells from hypoxia-induced viability loss, proliferation inhibition and apoptosis. In addition, GAA obviously enhanced the expression level of miR-182-5p in H9c2 cells. Suppression of miR-182-5p notably alleviated the protective effects of GAA on hypoxia-treated H9c2 cells. Furthermore, miR-182-5p negatively regulated the mRNA and protein levels of PTEN in H9c2 cells. GAA attenuated hypoxia-induced inactivation of PI3K/AKT pathway in H9c2 cells by up-regulating miR-182-5p and then down-regulating PTEN. Conclusion: GAA protected rat H9c2 cardiomyocytes from hypoxia-induced injury might via up-regulating miR-182-5p, down-regulating PTEN and then activating PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
research-article	CPB495166	Hepatitis B Virus X Protein Increases 8-Oxo-7,8-Dihydro-2ʹ-Deoxyguanosine (8-Oxodg) Level via Repressing MTH1/ MTH2 Expression in Hepatocytes Hepatitis B Virus X Protein Increases 8-Oxo-7,8-Dihydro-2ʹ-Deoxyguanosine (8-Oxodg) Level via Repressing MTH1/ MTH2 Expression in Hepatocytes Background/Aims: Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection markedly increases the risk of development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Among the seven viral proteins that HBV encodes, HBV X protein (HBx) appears to have the most oncogenic potential. The mitochondria-associated HBx can induce oxidative stress in hepatocytes, leading to the production of abundant reactive oxygen species (ROS). High levels of ROS usually induce oxidative DNA damage and 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), also known as 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG), which is one of the major products of DNA oxidation and an important biomarker for oxidative stress and carcinogenesis. Cells have evolved a mechanism to prevent oxidized nucleotides from their incorporation into DNA through nucleotide pool sanitization enzymes of MTH1 (NUDT1), MTH2 (NUDT15), MTH3 (NUDT18) and NUDT5. However, little is known as to whether HBx can regulate the expression of those enzymes and modulate the formation and accumulation of 8-oxodG in hepatocytes. Methods: The level of 8-oxodG was assessed by ELISA in stable HBV-producing hepatoma cell lines, an HBV infectious mouse model, HBV and HBx transgenic mice and HBV-infected patients versus their respective controls. Expression of MTH1, MTH2, MTH3 and NUDT5 was determined by a real-time quantitative PCR and western blot analysis. Transcriptional regulation of MTH1 and MTH2 expression by HBx and the effect of HBx on MTH1 and MTH2 promoter hypermethylation were examined using a luciferase reporter assay and bisulfite sequencing analysis. Results: In comparison with controls, significantly higher levels of 8-oxodG were detected in the genome and culture supernatant of stable HBV-producing HepG2.2.15 cells, in the sera and liver tissues of HBV infectious mice and HBV or HBx transgenic mice, and in the sera of HBV-infected patients. Expression of HBx in hepatocytes significantly increased 8-oxodG level and reduced the expression of MTH1 and MTH2 at both mRNA and protein levels. It was also demonstrated that HBx markedly attenuated the MTH1 or MTH2 promoter activities through hypermethylation. Furthermore, enhancement of 8-oxodG production by HBx was reversible by overexpression of MTH1 and MTH2. Conclusion: Our data show that HBx expression results in the accumulation of 8-oxodG in hepatocytes through inhibiting the expression of MTH1 and MTH2. This may implicate that HBx may act as a tumor promoter through facilitating the mutational potential of 8-oxodG thus connecting a possible link between HBV infection and liver carcinogenesis.
research-article	CPB495167	Protective Role of NMDAR for Microwave-Induced Synaptic Plasticity Injuries in Primary Hippocampal Neurons Protective Role of NMDAR for Microwave-Induced Synaptic Plasticity Injuries in Primary Hippocampal Neurons Background/Aims: The N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) has been extensively studied for its important roles in synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. However, the effects of microwave radiation on the subunit composition and activity of NMDARs and the relationship between NMDARs and microwave-induced synaptic plasticity have not been thoroughly elucidated to date. Materials: In our study, primary hippocampal neurons were used to evaluate the effects of microwave radiation on synaptic plasticity. Structural changes were observed by diolistic (Dil) labeling and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation. Functional synaptic plasticity was reflected by the NMDAR currents, which were detected by whole cell patch clamp. We also detected the expression of NMDAR subunits by real-time PCR and Western blot analysis. To clarify the effects of microwave radiation on NMDAR-induced synaptic plasticity, suitable agonists or inhibitors were added to confirm the role of NMDARs on microwave-induced synaptic plasticity. Dil labeling, SEM observation, whole cell patch clamp, real-time PCR and Western blot analysis were used to evaluate changes in synaptic plasticity after treatment with agonists or inhibitors. Results: Our results found that microwave exposure impaired neurite development and decreased mRNA and protein levels and the current density of NMDARs. Due to the decreased expression of NMDAR subunits after microwave exposure, the selective agonist NMDA was added to identify the role of NMDARs on microwave-induced synaptic plasticity injuries. After adding the agonist, the expression of NMDAR subunits recovered to the normal levels. In addition, the microwave-induced structural and functional synaptic plasticity injuries recovered, including the number and length of neurites, the connections between neurons, and the NMDAR current. Conclusion: Microwave radiation caused neuronal synaptic plasticity injuries in primary hippocampal neurons, and NMDARs played protective roles on the damage process.
research-article	CPB495240	Effects of IRW and IQW on Oxidative Stress and Gut Microbiota in Dextran Sodium Sulfate-Induced Colitis Effects of IRW and IQW on Oxidative Stress and Gut Microbiota in Dextran Sodium Sulfate-Induced Colitis Background/Aims: There are known links between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and changes in the microbiota of the gut and inflammation and oxidative stress. In this study, a colitis model induced by dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) in mice is used to evaluate whether the presence of bioactive peptides IRW (Ile-Arg-Trp) and IQW (Ile-Gln-Trp) peptides is advantageous. Methods: The mice were arbitrarily assigned to the following four groups: (i) control (untreated), (ii) dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) treated, (iii) IRW-DSS treated, and (iv) IQW-DSS treated. For 7 days, the control group subjects had unrestricted access to untreated drinking water, whereas the drinking water supplied to the subjects in the DSS, IRW-DSS, and IQW-DSS groups during this period consisted of 5% DSS solution. The colonic lesions were scored after hematoxylin and eosin staining. Serum antioxidant capacity was analyzed by 2,2’-azino-bis(3-ethylbenz-thiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) radical cation decolorization test and the microbiota in the colonic contents were sequenced by HiSeq2500 PE250. Results: The presence of DSS reduced daily weight gain, enhanced histopathology scores, and inhibited antioxidant enzyme expression. Superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase activities in the DSS-induced colitis model were significantly enhanced (P &
research-article	CPB495280	"Intrinsic Surface Effects of Tantalum and Titanium on Integrin α5β1/ ERK1/2 Pathway-Mediated Osteogenic Differentiation in Rat Bone Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Intrinsic Surface Effects of Tantalum and Titanium on Integrin α5β1/ ERK1/2 Pathway-Mediated Osteogenic Differentiation in Rat Bone Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Background/Aims: Accumulating evidence demonstrates the superior osteoinductivity of tantalum (Ta) to that of titanium (Ti); however, the mechanisms underlying these differences are unclear. Thus, the objective of the present study was to examine the effects of Ta and Ti surfaces on osteogenesis using rat bone mesenchymal stromal cells (rBMSCs) as a model. Methods: Ta and Ti substrates were polished to a mirror finish to minimize the influences of structural factors, and the intrinsic surface effects of the two materials on the integrin α5β1/mitogen-activated protein kinases 3 and 1 (ERK1/2) cascade-mediated osteogenesis of rBMSCs were evaluated. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, Alizarin Red staining, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and western blot assays of critical osteogenic markers were conducted to evaluate the effects of the two substrates on cell osteogenesis. Moreover, the role of the integrin α5β1/ERK1/2 pathway on the osteoinductive performance of Ta and Ti was assessed by up- and down-regulation of integrin α5 and β1 with RNA interference, as well as through ERK1/2 inhibition with U0126. Results: Osteogenesis of rBMSCs seeded on the Ta surface was superior to that of cells seeded on the Ti surface in terms of ALP activity, extracellular matrix calcification, and the expression of integrin α5, integrin β1, ERK1/2, Runt-related transcription factor 2, osteocalcin, collagen type I, and ALP at both the mRNA and protein levels. Moreover, down-regulation of integrin α5 or integrin β1, or ERK1/2 inhibition severely impaired the osteoblastic differentiation on the Ta surface. By contrast, over-expression of integrin α5 or integrin β1 improved osteogenesis on the Ti substrates, while subsequent ERK1/2 inhibition abrogated this effect. Conclusion: The integrin α5β1/ERK1/2 pathway plays a crucial role in regulating rBMSCs osteogenic differentiation; thus, the greater ability of a Ta surface to trigger integrin α5β1/ERK1/2 signaling may explain its better osteoinductivity. The different effects of Ta and Ti surfaces on rBMSC osteogenesis are considered to be related to the conductive behaviors between integrin α5β1 and the oxides spontaneously formed on the two metals. These results should facilitate the development of engineering strategies with Ta and Ti surfaces for improved osteogenesis in endosteal implants."
research-article	CPB495326	Curcumin Protects an SH-SY5Y Cell Model of Parkinson’s Disease Against Toxic Injury by Regulating HSP90 Curcumin Protects an SH-SY5Y Cell Model of Parkinson’s Disease Against Toxic Injury by Regulating HSP90 Background/Aims: We aimed to explore the protective role of curcumin (Cur) in a cell model of Parkinson’s disease (PD) and its underlying mechanism. Methods: In this study, genes concerned with PD-related keywords were screened within DiGSeE database. The association network between Cur and selected genes was downloaded from STITCH, with the interactions analyzed by STRING. We built a mitochondrial toxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+)-induced SH-SY5Y cell model of PD. Cell morphology was observed under an electron microscope. MTT assay was applied to detect cell proliferation rate. Western blot assay was conducted to determine the level of apoptotic markers, including cleaved caspase 3, Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) and B-cell lymphoma-extra-large (Bcl-xl). Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine transporter (DAT) protein levels and dopamine (DA) concentration were identified as dopaminergic neuron markers and measured by western blotting or Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results: Cur rescued the toxicity effects of MPP+ on SH-SY5Y cells, by controlling morphological change, promoting cell proliferation and inhibiting apoptosis. Of all PD-related genes, HSP90 played an important role in Cur-gene network. HSP90 protein level was elevated by MPP+, whereas Cur could reverse this effect. Silencing of HSP90 significantly attenuated the curative effect introduced by Cur, while HSP90 overexpression enhanced the impact of Cur on PD. Conclusion: Cur can effectively inhibit the toxic effect of MPP+ on SH-SY5Y cells and significantly reduce the adverse effects of MPP+ on dopaminergic neurons via up-regulation of HSP90.
review-article	CPB495332	"miR-2954 Inhibits PI3K Signaling and Induces Autophagy and Apoptosis in Myocardium Selenium Deficiency miR-2954 Inhibits PI3K Signaling and Induces Autophagy and Apoptosis in Myocardium Selenium Deficiency Background/Aims: Selenium (Se) deficiency can lead to several cardiac diseases, including Keshan disease in humans, mulberry heart disease in pigs and cardiac injury in chickens. MicroRNAs have been a research focus in recent years and have been shown to participate in a new avenue of cell death-autophagy, which can play a significant role in several types of heart disease. Methods: MicroRNAome analysis showed that the expression of miR-2954 was increased in the myocardium of selenium-deficient chickens, and PI3K was predicted to be the target gene. The target relationship between miR-2954 and PI3K was verified with a double fluorescence enzyme assay and RNA Protein Interaction Prediction and molecular docking software. qRT-PCR and western blotting were used to detect the expression of PI3K and related pathway components in selenium-deficient chickens and miR-2954 knockout/overexpression cardiomyocytes. Results: In this study, we observed that miR-2954 overexpression led to inhibition of PI3K pathway in vivo and in vitroled to inhibition of the PI3K pathway in vivo and in vitro. Conclusion: The expression of miR-2954 was increased in selenium-deficient myocardium, whereas overexpression of miR-2954 led to autophagy and apoptosis of myocardial cells during cardiac injury through regulation of the PI3K pathway; whether this phenomenon is a self-protection mechanism of the organism or damage caused by miR-2954 requires further study. Our findings provides new insight apoptosis in cardiomyocytes; additionally, we aim to provide a new direction for the diagnosis and targeted treatment of myocardial diseases."
research-article	CPB495333	MicroRNA Quantitation During Dendritic Cell Endocytosis Using Imaging Flow Cytometry: Key Factors and Requirements MicroRNA Quantitation During Dendritic Cell Endocytosis Using Imaging Flow Cytometry: Key Factors and Requirements Background/Aims: MicroRNA (miRNA)-induced suppression of dendritic cells (DCs) has been implicated in many diseases. Therefore, accurate monitoring of miRNA endocytosis by DCs is important for understanding the role of miRNAs in many diseases. Recently, a method for measuring the co-localization of Argonaute 2 (AGO2)-associated miRNAs on laser-scanning confocal microscopy method was proposed to localize the miRNAs. But its definition was limited by the number of observed cells through its accuracy. Methods: In this study, a method based on imaging flow cytometry was developed to localize miR-590-5p with fluorescent probes in DCs. miR-590-5p proven to play an important role in tumor immunity. This method enabled the quantification, visualization and localization of the fluorescence intensity in 30,000 individual cells. Results: Using this method, the DCs with different endocytotic ability were distinguished. The behaviour of miR-590-5p during endocytosis under the stimulation of tumor antigen in DCs was observed, binding to its cognate target mRNA and degradation in DCs. Conclusion: This method based on imaging flow cytometry provide an additional method to study miRNA processing in DCs, which makes it a valuable addition to existing miRNA research techniques.
research-article	CPB495396	miR-33a Mediates the Anti-Tumor Effect of Lovastatin in Osteosarcoma by Targeting CYR61 miR-33a Mediates the Anti-Tumor Effect of Lovastatin in Osteosarcoma by Targeting CYR61 Background/Aims: Preventing cell metastasis is an effective therapeutic strategy to treat osteosarcoma and improve prognosis. Statins have been found to have anticancer effects in addition to their cholesterol-lowering action. As a new target of statins, cysteine-rich 61 (CYR61) was recently identified to promote cell migration and metastasis in osteosarcoma. However, the underlying mechanisms mediating the regulation of CYR61 expression by statins remain unknown. Methods: Human osteosarcoma cell lines MG63 and SaOS2 were used to clarify the effect of lovastatin on CYR61 expression. Real-time PCR was performed to detect mRNA or microRNA (miRNA) levels and western blot was performed to detect protein levels. Cell invasive ability was determined using Transwell assays. Lentivirus encoding CYR61 cDNA or sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP-2) shRNA was used to upregulate CYR61 expression or downregulate SREBP-2 expression. Binding of the CYR61 3’ untranslated region (UTR) and miR-33a was analyzed by luciferase reporter assay. Results: We found that lovastatin treatment decreased CYR61 expression, inhibited cell invasion and altered epithelial-to-mesenchymal-transition (EMT)-related protein expression, while CYR61 overexpression abolished the effect of lovastatin. Moreover, lovastatin increased the expression of SREBP-2 and miR-33a, which were then downregulated by SREBP-2 silencing. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that the CYR61 3′UTR harbored a potential miR-33a binding site and luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that CYR61 was a target of miR-33a in osteosarcoma cells. Furthermore, miR-33a could inhibit cell invasion and alter EMT-related protein expression. SREBP-2 silencing or miR-33a inhibitor upregulated CYR61 expression and reversed the effects of lovastatin on cell invasion and EMT-related proteins. Conclusion: Our findings suggest lovastatin suppresses osteosarcoma cell invasion through the SREBP-2/miR-33a/CYR61 pathway.
research-article	CPB495492	Identification of Potential Biomarkers and Metabolic Profiling of Serum in Ovarian Cancer Patients Using UPLC/Q-TOF MS Identification of Potential Biomarkers and Metabolic Profiling of Serum in Ovarian Cancer Patients Using UPLC/Q-TOF MS Background/Aims: Ovarian cancer (OC) is a malignant neoplasm of the female reproductive system with a high mortality rate. Identifying useful biomarkers and clarifying the molecular pathogenesis of OC are critical for early diagnosis and treatment. The aim of the study was to identify candidate biomarkers and explore metabolic changes of OC. Methods: A two-stage design was used in our study, with a discovery cohort of OC cases (n = 30) and controls (n = 30) and an independent cohort of cases (n = 17) and controls (n = 18) for validation. The serum metabolic profiling was investigated by ultra-performance liquid chromatography and quadrupole time-of-fight mass spectrometry with positive electrospray ionization. Results: A total of 18 metabolites closely related to OC were identified in the discovery stage, of which 12 were confirmed in the validation cohort. Metabolic pathways in OC related to these biomarkers included fatty acid β-oxidation, phospholipid metabolism, and bile acid metabolism, which are closely related to the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of cancer cells. Multiple logistic regression analysis of these metabolites showed that 2-piperidinone and 1-heptadecanoylglycerophosphoethanolamine were potential biomarkers of OC, with high sensitivity (96.7%), specificity (66.7%), and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve value (0.894). Conclusion: These findings provide insight into the pathogenesis pathogenesis of OC and may be useful for clinical diagnosis and treatment.
research-article	CPB495497	Comparative Study of MSCA-1 and CD146 Isolated Periosteal Cell Subpopulations Comparative Study of MSCA-1 and CD146 Isolated Periosteal Cell Subpopulations Background/Aims: Periosteal tissue is a valuable source of multipotent stem cells for bone tissue engineering. To characterize these cells in detail, we generated an immortalized human cranial periosteal cell line and observed an increased MSCA-1 and CD146 expression, as well as an earlier and stronger mineralization compared to the parental cells. Further, we detected a higher osteogenic potential of MSCA-1high compared to MSCA-1low cranial periosteal cell (CPC) fractions. In the present study, a possible synergism of MSCA-1 and CD146 for periosteal cell mineralization was investigated. Methods: MSCA-1/CD146 positive and negative CPCs were magnetically isolated (MACS) or sorted by flow cytometry (FACS) and subjected to osteogenic differentiation. The expression of osteogenic marker genes in the four subpopulations was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. Furthermore, the co-expression of osteogenic markers/antigens was analyzed by multispectral imaging flow cytometry (ImageStream, AMNIS). The mineralization potential was assessed by the quantification of alizarin stainings. Results: While the total cell yield after separation was higher using MACS compared to the FACS approach, the isolation of MSCA-1+/- and CD146+/- subpopulations was more efficient with the FACS separation. The accuracy of the FACS separation of the four distinguished cell subpopulations was confirmed by multispectral imaging flow cytometry. Further, we detected increasing levels of MSCA-1 and CD146 during in vitro differentiation in all subpopulations. However, MSCA-1 expression was significantly higher in the MSCA-1+/CD146+ and MSCA-1+/ CD146- subpopulations, while CD146 expression remained clearly lower in these fractions. Significantly higher gene expression levels of osteogenic markers, ALP and RUNX2, were detected in MSCA-1+ compared to MSCA-1- CPCs at different time points during in vitro differentiation. Staining and quantification of calcium phosphate precipitates revealed a significantly higher mineralization potential of MACS separated MSCA-1+ and CD146- CPCs, compared to their respective counterparts. FACS sorted CPCs displayed earlier mineralization in both MSCA-1+ fractions (d13), while later (d28) only the CD146+/MSCA-1- fraction had a significantly lower calcium phosphate concentration compared to all other fractions. Conclusion: Our results demonstrate, that MSCA-1+ cells isolated from CPCs represent a subpopulation with a higher osteogenic potential. In contrast, we found a lower osteogenic potential in CD146+ CPCs. In conclusion, only MSCA-1, but not CD146, is a suitable marker for the isolation of osteoprogenitors from CPCs.
research-article	CPB495652	"Involvement of the TLR4/NF-κB Signaling Pathway in the Repair of Esophageal Mucosa Injury in Rats with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Involvement of the TLR4/NF-κB Signaling Pathway in the Repair of Esophageal Mucosa Injury in Rats with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Background/Aims: Numerous studies have highlighted the activation of NF-κB in the esophageal mucosa during the early stages of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). The present study aimed to investigate the role of the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway in GERD rat models. Methods: Wistar rats (n = 60) were recruited to establish a GERD animal model. Distal esophageal pH was assessed, followed by determination of the contents of thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in esophageal mucosa homogenate. ELISA was employed to detect the levels of inflammatory factors (IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 and TNF-α) in esophageal mucosa. The expression of MMP-3, MPP-9, Cldn1 and Cldn4 was determined by immunohistochemistry. RT-qPCR and western blot analysis were applied to evaluate the protein expressions in TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway, while TUNEL staining was utilized to examine the apoptosis rate in the esophageal mucosal tissues. Results: Distal esophageal pH of the rats was higher in the GERD + PDTC group than in other groups. Levels of inflammatory factors in esophageal mucosal tissues were downregulated with the inhibition of NF-κB, which was determined to be associated with the decreased contents of TBARS and ROS. Moreover, decreased MMP-3 and MPP-9 in addition to elevated Cldn1 and Cldn4 were detected in the esophageal mucosa as a result of the inactivation of NF-κB. The TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway-related proteins (TLR4, NF-κB and IκBα); the rate of apoptosis was demonstrated to be suppressed in the GERD + PDTC group, while inactivating NF-κB was found to alleviate the tissue damage observed in the esophageal mucosa. Conclusion: The key findings of the current study demonstrate that the inactivation of the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway alleviates oxidative stress injury and promotes the repair of esophageal mucosal injury among rats with GERD, highlighting a potential novel GERD mechanism."
research-article	CPB495672	"The Role of Intestinal Fatty Acid Binding Proteins in Protecting Cells from Fatty Acid Induced Impairment of Mitochondrial Dynamics and Apoptosis The Role of Intestinal Fatty Acid Binding Proteins in Protecting Cells from Fatty Acid Induced Impairment of Mitochondrial Dynamics and Apoptosis Background/Aims: The conformation, folding and lipid binding properties of the intestinal fatty acid binding proteins (IFABP) have been extensively investigated. In contrast, the functional aspects of these proteins are not understood and matter of debates. In this study, we aim to address the deleterious effects of FA overload on cellular components, particularly mitochondria; and how IFABP helps in combating this stress by restoring the mitochondrial dynamics. Methods: In the present study the functional aspect of IFABP under conditions of lipid stress was studied by a string of extensive in-cell studies; flow cytometry by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), confocal imaging, western blotting and quantitative real time PCR. We deployed ectopic expression of IFABP in rescuing cells under the condition of lipid stress. Again in order to unveil the mechanistic insights of functional traits, we arrayed extensive computational approaches by means of studying centrality calculations along with protein-protein association and ligand induced cluster dissociation. While addressing its functional importance, we used FCS and in-silico computational analyses, to show the structural distribution and the underlying mechanism of IFABP’s action. Results: Ectopic expression of IFABP in HeLa cells has been found to rescue mitochondrial morphological dynamics and restore membrane potential, partially preventing apoptotic damage induced by the increased FAs. These findings have been further validated in the functionally relevant intestinal Caco-2 cells, where the native expression of IFABP protects mitochondrial morphology from abrogation induced by FA overload. However, this native level expression is insufficient to protect against apoptotic cell death, which is rescued, at least partially in cells overexpressing IFABP. In addition, shRNA mediated IFABP knockdown in Caco-2 cells compromises mitochondrial dynamics and switches on intrinsic apoptotic pathways under FA-induced metabolic stress. Conclusion: To summarize, the present study implicates functional significance of IFABP in controlling ligand-induced damage in mitochondrial dynamics and apoptosis."
research-article	CPB495673	MORC2 Enhances Tumor Growth by Promoting Angiogenesis and Tumor-Associated Macrophage Recruitment via Wnt/β-Catenin in Lung Cancer MORC2 Enhances Tumor Growth by Promoting Angiogenesis and Tumor-Associated Macrophage Recruitment via Wnt/β-Catenin in Lung Cancer Background/Aims: In this study, we aimed to investigate how MORC family CW-type zinc finger 2 (MORC2) affects tumor progression of lung cancer. Methods: The MORC2 level was analyzed by real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) in normal control tissues and lung cancers. LL/2 cells overexpressing MORC2 were used to study how MORC2 expression influences lung cancer progression. The effects of MORC2 on cell viability, migration and invasion were assessed by MTT assay, Western blotting, and transwell assays, respectively. Afterwards, the effects of MORC2 on the activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway were explored by Western blotting. The effects of MORC2 on tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) were determined by immunofluorescence (IF) staining, real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting. Results: Our results showed that MORC2 was upregulated in lung cancers relative to adjacent tissues. The results also demonstrated that MORC2 promoted lung cancer tumor growth in vivo. Additionally, MORC2 overexpression stimulated the upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), driving angiogenesis. MORC2 overexpression in LL/2 also increased the amount of aldehyde dehydrogenase-1 (ALDH1) protein, indicating that MORC2 increased cancer stem cell features. We further determined that MORC2 activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling in lung cancer cells. Upregulation of macrophage-recruiting genes including VEGF and Macrophage-specific colony stimulating factor (CSF-1) recruits TAMs to the tumor site, which has the net effect of promoting additional tumor growth and metastasis. Conclusion: Our data suggest that MORC2 overexpression can drive lung cancer growth by stimulating the recruitment of TAMs in addition to angiogenesis and that activation of Wnt/β-signaling may be a key pathway underlying this phenotype that is amenable to pharmacological intervention.
research-article	CPB495678	"1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 Attenuates Angiotensin II-Induced Renal Injury by Inhibiting Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Autophagy 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 Attenuates Angiotensin II-Induced Renal Injury by Inhibiting Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Autophagy Background/Aims: A recent study has shown that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25-D3), the active form of vitamin D, can ameliorate renal dysfunction. In this study, we aimed to determine the role of 1,25-D3 in angiotensin (Ang II)-induced renal injury and investigate the underlying mechanisms involved. Methods: C57BL/6J mice were treated with Ang II and/or 1,25-D3 (or saline as the control) for 2 weeks. Renal injury was evaluated using transmission electron microscopy and periodic acid-Schiff reagent and Masson’s trichrome staining. The pro-fibrotic and pro-inflammatory factors were assessed using real-time PCR. The renal apoptotic pathway was evaluated with TUNEL staining and western blot. Mitochondrial dysfunction (MtD) was determined using real-time PCR and electron microscopy. The activation of autophagy was detected using western blot. Results: In the Ang II-infused mice, expanded mesangial regions, tubulointerstitial fibrosis, and foot process fusion were observed; the levels of the pro-fibrotic and pro-inflammatory cytokines and MtD were also increased when compared with the control group. However, we found that administration of 1,25-D3 significantly improved renal function and MtD and reduced the pro-fibrotic and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels. Furthermore, 1,25-D3 significantly inhibited Ang II-induced autophagy dysfunction (determined by inhibition of Beclin-1 activation and reduction of the LC3-II/LC3-I ratio). Conclusion: Our findings suggest that 1,25-D3 may attenuate Ang II-induced renal injury by improving MtD and modulating autophagy. 1,25-D3 may be a new therapeutic for the treatment of CKD."
research-article	CPB495715	"Novel Survivin Inhibitor for Suppressing Pancreatic Cancer Cells Growth via Downregulating Sp1 and Sp3 Transcription Factors Novel Survivin Inhibitor for Suppressing Pancreatic Cancer Cells Growth via Downregulating Sp1 and Sp3 Transcription Factors Background/Aims: Targeting survivin, an anti-apoptotic protein and mitotic regulator, is considered as an effective therapeutic option for pancreatic cancer (PaCa). Tolfenamic acid (TA) showed anti-cancer activity in pre-clinical studies. A recent discovery demonstrated a copper(II) complex of TA (Cu-TA) can result in higher activity. In this study, the ability of Cu-TA to inhibit survivin and its transcription factors, Specificity protein (Sp) 1 and 3 in PaCa cell lines and tumor growth in mouse xenograft model were evaluated. Methods: Cell growth inhibition was measured in MIA PaCa-2 and Panc1 cells for 2 days using CellTiter-Glo kit. Sp1, Sp3 and survivin expression (by Western blot and qPCR), apoptotic cells and cell cycle phase distribution (by flow cytometry) were evaluated. A pilot study was performed using athymic nude mice [treated with vehicle/Cu-TA (25 or 50 mg/kg) 3 times/week for 4 weeks. Results: The IC50 value for Cu-TA was about half than TA.Both agents repressed the protein expression of Sp1/Sp3/survivin, Cu-TA was more effective than TA. Especially effect on survivin inhibition was 5.2 (MIA PaCa-2) or 6.4 (Panc1) fold higher and mRNA expression of only survivin was decreased. Apoptotic cells increased with Cu-TA treatment in both cell lines, while Panc1 showed both effect on apoptosis and cell cycle (G2/M) arrest. Cu-TA decreased the tumor growth in mouse xenografts (25 mg/kg: 48%; 50 mg/kg: 68%). Additionally, there was no change observed in mice body weights, indicating no overt toxicity was occurring. Conclusion: These results show that Cu-TA can serve as an effective survivin inhibitor for inhibiting PaCa cell growth."
research-article	CPB495722	Pituitary Adenylate Cyclase Activating Polypeptide Elicits Neuroprotection Against Acute Ischemic Neuronal Cell Death Associated with NMDA Receptors Pituitary Adenylate Cyclase Activating Polypeptide Elicits Neuroprotection Against Acute Ischemic Neuronal Cell Death Associated with NMDA Receptors Background/Aims: The endogenous neurotrophic peptides pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptides (PACAP-27/38) protect against stroke, but the molecular mechanism remains unknown. Methods: Primary rat neural cells were exposed to PACAP-27 or PACAP-38 before induction of experimental acute ischemic stroke via oxygen-glucose deprivation-reperfusion (OGD/R) injury. To reveal PACAP’s role in neuroprotection, we employed fluorescent live/dead cell viability and caspase 3 assays, optical densitometry of mitochondrial dehydrogenase and cell growth, glutathione disulfide luciferase activity, ELISA for high mobility group box1 extracellular concentration, ATP bioluminescence, Western blot analysis of PACAP, NMDA subunits, apoptosis regulator Bcl-2, social interaction hormone oxytocin, and trophic factor BDNF, and immunocytochemical analysis of PACAP. Results: Both PACAP-27 and PACAP-38 (PACAP-27/38) increased cell viability, decreased oxidative stress-induced cell damage, maintained mitochondrial activity, prevented the release of high mobility group box1, and reduced cytochrome c/caspase 3-induced apoptosis. PACAP-27/38 increased the protein expression levels of BDNF, Bcl-2, oxytocin, and precursor PACAP. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-induced excitotoxicity contributes to the cell death associated with stroke. PACAP-27/38 modulated the protein expression levels of NMDAR subunits. PACAP-27/38 increased the protein expression levels of the GluN1 subunit, and decreased that of the GluN2B and GluN2D subunits. PACAP-27, but not PACAP-38, increased the expression level of the GluN2C subunit. Conclusion: This study provides evidence that PACAP regulated NMDAR subunits, affording neuroprotection after OGD/R injury.
research-article	CPB495825	Potential Role of microRNA-183 as a Tumor Suppressor in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Potential Role of microRNA-183 as a Tumor Suppressor in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Background/Aims: Disseminated tumors, known as metastases, are responsible for ninety-percent of mortality due to cancer. Epithelial to mesenchymal transition, a phenomenon required for morphological conversion of non-motile discoid shaped epithelial cells to highly motile spindle-shaped mesenchymal cells, is thought to be a pre-requisite for metastatic progression. Metastasis-associated 1 (MTA1) protein is a prime inducer of EMT and metastatic progression in all solid tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate the expression and function of MTA1 in HCC have not been elucidated. Methods: In silico prediction algorithms were used to find microRNAs (miRNAs) that may target MTA1. We examined the relationship between the expression of MTA1 and miR-183 using quantitative real time PCR. We also determined the levels of the MTA1 protein using immunohistochemistry. Reporter assays, in the presence and absence of the miR-183 mimic, were used to confirm MTA1 as a bona fide target of miR183. The effect of miR-183 on HCC pathogenesis was determined using a combination of in vitro migration and invasion assay, together with in vivo xenograft experiments. The correlation between miR-183 and MTA1 expression was also studied in samples from HCC patients, and in The Cancer Genome Atlas dataset. Results: Analysis of the sequence database revealed that MTA1 is a putative target of miR-183. MTA1 protein and RNA expression showed opposite trends to miR-183 expression in breast, renal, prostate, and testicular tissue samples from cancer patients, and in the metastatic HCC cell line HepG2. An inverse correlation was also observed between MTA1 (high) and miR-183 (low) expression within samples from HHC patients and in the TCGA dataset. Reporter assays in HepG2 cells showed that miR-183 could inhibit translation of a reporter harboring the wild-type, but not the mutant miR-183 3’-untranslated region (UTR). In addition, miR-183 significantly inhibited in vitro migration and invasion in HepG2 cells, and in vivo hepatic metastasis. Conclusion: Our results reveal a novel post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism for MTA1 expression via miR-183, which is suppressed during HCC pathogenesis.
research-article	CPB495828	Blocking TRPA1 and TNF-α Signal Improves Bortezomib-Induced Neuropathic Pain Blocking TRPA1 and TNF-α Signal Improves Bortezomib-Induced Neuropathic Pain Background/Aims: Bortezomib (BTZ) is largely used as a chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of multiple myeloma. However, one of the significant limiting complications of BTZ is painful peripheral neuropathy during BTZ therapy. The purpose of this study was to examine the underlying mechanisms leading to neuropathic pain induced by BTZ. Methods: ELISA and western blot analysis were used to examine the levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and its receptor, transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) and intracellular p38-MAPK and JNK signal in the lumbar dorsal root ganglion. Behavioral test was performed to determine mechanical pain and cold sensitivity in a rat model. Results: Systemic injection of BTZ significantly increased mechanical pain and cold sensitivity as compared with control animals (P&
research-article	CPB495871	lncRNA SNHG8 Promotes the Tumorigenesis and Metastasis by Sponging miR-149-5p and Predicts Tumor Recurrence in Hepatocellular Carcinoma lncRNA SNHG8 Promotes the Tumorigenesis and Metastasis by Sponging miR-149-5p and Predicts Tumor Recurrence in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Background/Aims: Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are aberrantly expressed in multiple malignant tumors involved in tumor growth and metastasis. Accumulating data show that small nucleolar RNA host gene (SNHG) 1/12/20 plays a key role in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the molecular mechanisms by which SNHG8 contributes to HCC remain elusive and merit exploration. Methods: The association between SNHG8 expression and the clinicopathological characteristics and prognoses in HCC patients was analysed by using qRT-PCR analysis and the data from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Cell growth and metastatic potential were determined by MTT, colony formation, Transwell assays, and the mouse xenograft tumor model and lung metastasis model. Epithelial–mesenchymal transition markers were detected by western blot analysis. The binding capacity of SNHG8 with miRNAs was evidenced by bioinformatic analysis and a luciferase reporter assay. In addition, the rescue experiments were performed based on co-transfection with sh-SNHG8 and a miR-149 inhibitor in HCC cells. Results: The expression levels of lncRNA SNHG8 were dramatically increased in HCC tissues and cell lines as compared with the adjacent normal tissues, and SNHG8 expression was an independent prognostic factor of tumor recurrence in HCC patients. Furthermore, knockdown of SNHG8 inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, and lung metastasis in vitro and in vivo, whereas overexpression of SNHG8 reversed these effects. SNHG8 acted as a sponge of miR-149 and counteracted the tumor suppressive effects of mi R-149 in HCC cells. Expression of phosphatase, Mg2+/Mn2+ dependent 1F, a target of R-149, displayed a negative correlation with miR-149 expression but a positive correlation with SNHG8 expression in HCC specimens. Conclusion: As lncRNA SNHG8 may promote HCC tumorigenesis and metastasis by sponging miR-149, it is a potential candidate marker and therapeutic target for HCC.
review-article	CPB495897	Type I Interferons: Distinct Biological Activities and Current Applications for Viral Infection Type I Interferons: Distinct Biological Activities and Current Applications for Viral Infection The interferons (IFNs) are a primary defense against pathogens because of the strong antiviral activities they induce. IFNs can be classified into three groups: type I, type II and type III, according to their genetic, structural, and functional characteristics and their receptors on the cell surface. The type I IFNs are the largest group and include IFN-α, IFN-β, IFN-ε, IFN-ω, IFN-κ, IFN-δ, IFN-τ and IFN-ζ. The use of IFNs for the treatment of viral infectious diseases on their antiviral activity may become an important therapeutic option, for example, IFN-α is well known for the successful treatment of hepatitis B and C virus infections, and interest is increasing in the antiviral efficacy of other novel IFN classes and their potential applications. Therefore, in this review, we summarize the recent progress in the study of the biological activities of all the type I IFN classes and their potential applications in the treatment of infections with immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis viruses, and influenza viruses.
research-article	CPB495904	Predictive Value of Age-Bilirubin-International Normalized Ratio-Creatinine Score in Short-Term Survival of Acute-on-Chronic Hepatitis B Liver Failure Predictive Value of Age-Bilirubin-International Normalized Ratio-Creatinine Score in Short-Term Survival of Acute-on-Chronic Hepatitis B Liver Failure Background/Aims: The age-bilirubin-international normalized ratio-creatinine (ABIC) score, which is a predictive model commonly used for alcoholic hepatitis, has not yet been studied in acute-on-chronic hepatitis B liver failure (HBV-ACLF). We aimed to investigate the predictive value of the ABIC score in patients with HBV-ACLF. Methods: This retrospective study involved 398 patients diagnosed with HBV-ACLF, who were divided into a training cohort of 305 patients and a validation cohort of 93 patients. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression models were used to determine risk factors for mortality. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was calculated to estimate and compare the predictive values of different prognostic scores. Results: The ABIC score was significantly higher in the death group of the training cohort than in its survival group. Independent risk factors for mortality identified by multivariate Cox analysis included blood urea nitrogen, ABIC score, and Chronic Liver Failure Consortium Organ Failure (CLIF-C OF) score. For predicting 1- and 3-month mortality, AUC was higher for the ABIC score than for the Model for End-stage Liver Diseases (MELD) score (0.732 vs. 0.653, P &
research-article	CPB495961	Plasma Exosomal Long Non-Coding RNAs Serve as Biomarkers for Early Detection of Colorectal Cancer Plasma Exosomal Long Non-Coding RNAs Serve as Biomarkers for Early Detection of Colorectal Cancer Background/Aims: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most commonly diagnosed malignancy and the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Thus, methods for early diagnosis of CRC are urgently needed. We aimed to identify potential long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in circulatory exosomes that may serve as biomarkers for the detection of early-stage CRC. Methods: Exosomes from the plasma of CRC patients (n = 50) and healthy individuals (n = 50) were isolated by ultracentrifugation, followed by extraction of total exosomal RNAs using TRIzol reagent. Microarray analysis was used for exosomal lncRNA profiling in the two groups, and real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to determine the expression level of lncRNAs in all patients and healthy subjects. Results: The expression of six lncRNAs (LNCV6_116109, LNCV6_98390, LNCV6_38772, LNCV_108266, LNCV6_84003, and LNCV6_98602) was found to be significantly up-regulated in CRC patients compared with that in healthy individuals by qRT-PCR. The receiver operating characteristic curve was used to verify their diagnostic accuracy. The values of the area under the curve for these lncRNAs were 0.770 (LNCV6_116109), 0.7500 (LNCV6_98390), 0.6500 (LNCV6_38772), 0.6900 (LNCV_108266), 0.7500 (LNCV6_84003), and 0.7200 (LNCV6_98602). Conclusion: Our study suggested that the expression of these six exosomal lncRNAs (LNCV6_116109, LNCV6_98390, LNCV6_38772, LNCV_108266, LNCV6_84003, and LNCV6_98602) was significantly up-regulated in the plasma of CRC patients, and that they may serve as potential non-invasive biomarkers for early diagnosis of CRC.
case-report	CRC494666	The Use of an Arginine-Enriched Oral Nutrition Supplement to Enhance Wound Healing from a Cesarean Section The Use of an Arginine-Enriched Oral Nutrition Supplement to Enhance Wound Healing from a Cesarean Section Background: Surgical wounds can directly hinder daily activities and leave scars that can have long-term impacts on a patient. Cesarean sections account for over one-third of all baby deliveries, resulting in women faced with a wound needing rapid healing to take care of their baby. Case Presentation: The patient received an arginine-enriched oral nutrition supplement twice daily for 14 days as a therapeutic intervention to aid in wound healing and recovery. At the 2-week postpartum visit, validated scar assessment scales were completed to determine how the surgical wound was healing. It was shown that this therapeutic intervention improved wound healing as indicated by low scar assessments. Conclusion: This woman showed that consuming an arginine-enriched oral nutrition supplement could optimize healing following a cesarean section. Future research needs to be conducted on a larger sample size to determine whether these results can be generalized to the broader population.
case-report	CRD323834	Mitral Regurgitation due to Papillary Muscle Dyssynchrony during Trastuzumab Treatment Mitral Regurgitation due to Papillary Muscle Dyssynchrony during Trastuzumab Treatment Trastuzumab is a monoclonal antibody used for the treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma in women whose tumors overexpress the human epidermal growth factor receptor-2. Although trastuzumab is generally well tolerated, cardiac toxicity has occurred as a rare but potentially serious complication that limits its use in some patients. In this study, we detected new-onset mitral regurgitation in trastuzumab-treated patients. To our knowledge, there is no report or survey on new-onset mitral regurgitation during this treatment. We discussed the possible reasons for this newly described side effect of the drug in the light of left ventricular longitudinal global strain and papillary muscle dyssynchrony of the patient by detecting two-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography.
case-report	CRD324304	Unplanned Staged Hybrid Management of Postmyocardial Infarction Ventricular Septal Defect Unplanned Staged Hybrid Management of Postmyocardial Infarction Ventricular Septal Defect Ventricular septal defect (VSD) is an uncommon but potentially deadly complication of transmural myocardial infarction (MI). Emergency surgical treatment has traditionally offered the best chance for survival. However, operative intervention is associated with high mortality and can be complicated by a recurrent VSD due to tissue friability around the infarcted area. Percutaneous catheter-based closure techniques can be used to treat these critically ill patients, offering a less invasive and less morbid technique. This case demonstrates the successful application of an unplanned, staged hybrid approach utilizing initial percutaneous and subsequent surgical repair after recovery of tissue integrity.
case-report	CRD324308	Effective Management of Acute Coronary Thrombosis in a Young Woman with Lupus Using Aggressive Medical Therapy Effective Management of Acute Coronary Thrombosis in a Young Woman with Lupus Using Aggressive Medical Therapy Systemic lupus erythematosus is a chronic inflammatory disorder that predisposes to acute coronary thrombosis. To demonstrate how the pathophysiology of lupus-mediated coronary events may be unique, we offer the case and management of a young woman with lupus who presented with acute myocardial infarction. She was initially managed with medical therapy including the standard regimen of aspirin, heparin, and clopidogrel. Despite a Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction risk score of only 2, she was also given eptifibatide infusion because of clinical concerns. Repeated cardiac catheterization showed marked regression of the thrombus, and coronary fractional flow reserve calculation demonstrated full recovery of coronary vasculature with this therapy. This case demonstrates effective management of life-threatening coronary thrombosis with medical therapy only in a young woman with lupus. We briefly review the pathophysiology of acute coronary thrombosis in lupus patients and distinguish this from the more common process of age-related atherosclerosis. Given the lack of evidence in this specific population, we discuss a pathophysiology-based clinical decision-making tool. Assessing clinical risk factors and using technologies such as intravascular ultrasound can help make the correct treatment decision.
research-article	CRD346884	The Changes of Serum Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 in Patients with Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension due to Congenital Heart Disease The Changes of Serum Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 in Patients with Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension due to Congenital Heart Disease Background: Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a primary component of the vasoprotective axis in the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), has recently been found to have regulatory actions in hypoxic pulmonary hypertension and monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension. We explored the hypothesis that the level of ACE2 protein contents may be decreased in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) due to congenital heart disease (CHD). Objective: We observed the serum ACE2 protein contents in patients with PAH due to CHD (CHD-PAH), and investigated their correlation with mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP). Methods: One hundred and four patients with CHD and 33 normal control patients (group A) were involved in the research. The patients with CHD were divided into 55 cases of nonpulmonary hypertension (group B), 25 cases of mild to moderate pulmonary hypertension (group C) and 24 cases of severe pulmonary hypertension (group D). The serum level of ACE2 protein contents were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and the relationship between these contents and mPAP were analyzed. Results: ACE2 protein contents significantly declined as mPAP increased. The mPAP was negatively correlated with the level of ACE2 protein contents. Conclusions: These results demonstrated that ACE2 may play an important regulatory role in CHD-PAH.
systematic-review	CRD360603	A Systematic Review on the Quality of Life Benefits after Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in the Elderly A Systematic Review on the Quality of Life Benefits after Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in the Elderly Aims: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is being increasingly performed on elderly patients with acceptable peri-procedural outcomes and long-term survival. We aim to systematically review the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) following PCI in the elderly which is an important measure of procedural success. Methods: A systematic review of clinical studies before September 2012 was performed to identify HRQOL in the elderly after PCI. Strict inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied. Quality appraisal of each study was also performed using pre-defined criteria. HRQOL results were synthesised through a narrative review with full tabulation of results of all included studies. Results: Elderly patients have significant improvements in cardiovascular well-being. Early HRQOL appears improved from baseline, but recovery in physical health may be slower than in younger patients. HRQOL is comparable to an age-matched general population and younger patients undergoing PCI. Conservative management is not able to offer the same HRQOL benefits. Coronary artery bypass graft surgery may be superior to PCI in the very elderly. Significant heterogeneity and bias exists. Lack of appropriate data precluded meta-analysis. Conclusion: HRQOL after PCI in the elderly can improve for at least 1 year across a broad range of health domains, and is comparable to an age-matched general population and younger patients undergoing PCI. Given a limited number of articles and patients included, more prospective studies are needed to better identify the benefits for elderly patients.
meta-analysis	CRD366473	The Impact of Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Blockade on Contrast-Induced Nephropathy: A Meta-Analysis of 12 Studies with 4,493 Patients The Impact of Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Blockade on Contrast-Induced Nephropathy: A Meta-Analysis of 12 Studies with 4,493 Patients Objectives: This meta-analysis investigated the impact of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockade on the occurrence of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). Methods: Twelve studies comparing the use of RAAS blockade in a total of 4,493 patients undergoing a contrast-using procedure were included. The primary endpoint was the overall postprocedural incidence of CIN. Results: In the overall pooled analysis, there was no significant difference between the two groups, RAAS blockade &
meta-analysis	CRD367589	Preoperative Risk Factors for Residual Tricuspid Regurgitation after Isolated Left-Sided Valve Surgery: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Preoperative Risk Factors for Residual Tricuspid Regurgitation after Isolated Left-Sided Valve Surgery: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: Residual tricuspid regurgitation (TR) that has developed after isolated left-sided valve surgery is not uncommon. Indications for concomitant tricuspid repair at the initial operation have not been well established. The selection of high-risk preoperative patients is of great importance in this situation. Methods: Six databases were searched to access eligible articles reporting potential risk factors for the development of residual TR. The pooled analysis of risk factors was based on odds ratios or mean differences with their 95% confidence intervals. Results: A total of 3,138 patients with 487 residual TR in 11 studies were analyzed. Of the 14 candidate parameters in our meta-analysis, 10 factors, i.e. older age, female gender, atrial fibrillation, rheumatic etiology, mitral valve surgery, previous valve surgery, a long time from onset to surgery, 2+/3+ TR and enlarged left and right atria, were found to be significantly associated with the development of residual TR. Conclusions: Our study highlights the role of the above preoperative risk factors in the development of residual TR after isolated left-sided valve surgery and emphasizes the need of further studies to investigate other potential predictors. Moreover, predictive models or scoring systems for the identification of patients at a high risk for developing late TR are urgently needed.
meta-analysis	CRD368073	"Stent Thrombosis with Biodegradable Polymer Drug-Eluting Stents versus Durable Polymer Sirolimus-Eluting Stents: An Update Meta-Analysis Stent Thrombosis with Biodegradable Polymer Drug-Eluting Stents versus Durable Polymer Sirolimus-Eluting Stents: An Update Meta-Analysis Objective: Durable polymer sirolimus-eluting stents (DP-SES) are associated with a low risk of stent thrombosis; biodegradable polymer drug-eluting stents (BP-DES) were designed to reduce these risks. However, their benefits are still variable. Method: We undertook a meta-analysis of randomized trials identified by systematic searches of Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Database. Results: Eleven studies (9,676 patients) with a mean follow-up of 22.6 months were included. Overall, compared with DP-SES, BP-DES significantly lowered the rate of definite or probable stent thrombosis (RR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.55-0.97; p = 0.03; I2 = 0.0%) due to a decreased risk of very late stent thrombosis (RR, 0.26; 95% CI, 0.11-0.63; p = 0.00; I2 = 0.0%). However, BP-DES were associated with a comparable rate of early and late stent thrombosis. Meanwhile, BP-DES were associated with a broadly equivalent risk of target vessel revascularization (RR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.78-1.03; p = 0.13; I2 = 0.0%), cardiac death (RR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.72-1.09; p = 0.24; I2 = 0.0%), myocardial infarction (RR, 1.03; 95% CI, 0.84-1.26; p = 0.79; I2 = 0.0%), and major adverse cardiac events (MACE; RR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.83-1.0; p = 0.08; I2 = 0.0%). Furthermore, angiographic data showed that in-stent and in-segment late luminal loss were similar between the two groups. Conclusions: Compared with DP-SES, BP-DES were associated with a lower rate of very late stent thrombosis and an equivalent risk of MACE. Larger randomized studies are needed to confirm this finding."
meta-analysis	CRD375259	"Effect of Angiotensin Receptor Blockers on Flow-Mediated Vasodilation: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Effect of Angiotensin Receptor Blockers on Flow-Mediated Vasodilation: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: In a meta-analysis, we investigated the effects of angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) in comparison to placebo or other classes of antihypertensive drugs on endothelial function, which was measured by brachial flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD). Methods: We searched for randomized controlled trials that compared ARBs with placebo or other classes of antihypertensive drugs in improving FMD. A random-effect model was used to compute pooled estimates. Results: In 13 trials (n = 529), ARBs were more efficacious in improving brachial FMD than placebo [pooled weighted mean change difference (WMD) 1.34%, 95% CI, 0.93-1.75%, p &lt; 0.001]. In 15 trials (n = 918), treatment with ARBs had a significant effect on brachial FMD when compared with other antihypertensive drugs (pooled WMD 0.59%, 95% CI, 0.20-0.98%, p = 0.003 with significant heterogeneity). ARBs were also more efficacious in improving brachial FMD than calcium channel blockers (CCBs; pooled WMD 1.61%, 95% CI, 0.72-2.49%, p &lt; 0.001) but not the other classes of drugs (p ≥ 0.072). Conclusions: This meta-analysis shows that ARBs improve brachial FMD, a marker of endothelial function, and that they are superior to placebo and CCBs. There was no significant difference in the effect on brachial FMD between ARBs and the other antihypertensive drugs."
meta-analysis	CRD375288	"The Effect of Trimetazidine Added to Pharmacological Treatment on All-Cause Mortality in Patients with Systolic Heart Failure The Effect of Trimetazidine Added to Pharmacological Treatment on All-Cause Mortality in Patients with Systolic Heart Failure The anti-ischemic agent trimetazidine (TMZ) added to pharmacological treatment appears to have positive effects on cardiac parameters of patients with heart failure (HF) as a result of specific antioxidant properties. Objectives: We aimed to verify whether the marked improvement provided by TMZ in echocardiographic and clinical parameters was likely to translate into reduced all-cause mortality in systolic HF patients. Methods: Meta-analysis of available published prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) data (1967-2014) retrieved from PubMed, Web of Science and Cochrane Collaboration. Results: A total of 326 patients from 3 RCTs were analyzed: 164 who received TMZ on top of pharmacological HF therapy and 162 controls. Study durations ranged from 12 to 48 months. The analysis had no publication bias and the studies were homogeneous (p = 0.442, I2 = 0). The results show a significant effect of TMZ on the reduction of all-cause mortality (RR = 0.283, p &lt; 0.0001). The rate of events attributable to the drug was lower with TMZ than it was among control patients. Conclusion: This meta-analysis suggests that in patients with HF, TMZ given as an add-on therapy is likely to provide a protective effect, reduce all-cause mortality and increase event-free survival, and could be an effective and useful adjunct to our armamentarium for the treatment of HF patients."
meta-analysis	CRD375289	"The Effectiveness of Preoperative Trimetazidine on Myocardial Preservation in Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Effectiveness of Preoperative Trimetazidine on Myocardial Preservation in Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is a key and effective surgical treatment modality for coronary artery disease. Unfortunately, ischemia-reperfusion injury during and after CABG can lead to reversible and irreversible myocardial damage. Trimetazidine [1-(2,3,4-trimethoxybenzyl)piperazine dihydrochloride] is a metabolic anti-ischemic agent with demonstrated cardioprotective effects; however, its effects with respect to myocardial preservation in CABG patients remain unclear. Methods: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to investigate the effectiveness of myocardial preservation of preoperative trimetazidine therapy in CABG patients by assessing the postoperative levels of several blood-based biochemical markers of myocardial injury, including creatine kinase (CK), creatine kinase-muscle and brain (CK-MB), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), troponin T (TnT) and troponin I (TnI). The RCTs were classified into two subgroup analyses by the timing of sample collection (either ≤12 or &gt;12 h after CABG). Results: Six RCTs were finally included in the meta-analysis. The pooled effect sizes showed significantly lower postoperative levels of CK, CK-MB, TnT and TnI in the trimetazidine-treated CABG patients relative to control CABG patients. However, there were no significant differences in the postoperative CPK levels between trimetazidine-treated CABG patients relative to control CABG patients. In both the ≤12 and &gt;12 h post-CABG subgroup analyses, significant differences in CK, CK-MB, TnT and TnI were detected between the trimetazidine-treated CABG patients relative to control CABG patients. Conclusions: Preoperative trimetazidine therapy appears to have a positive effect on myocardial preservation in CABG patients."
meta-analysis	CRD433418	"Clinical Outcomes of Manual Aspiration Thrombectomy in Patients with Acute Myocardial Infarction: An Updated Meta-Analysis Clinical Outcomes of Manual Aspiration Thrombectomy in Patients with Acute Myocardial Infarction: An Updated Meta-Analysis Background: Recent trials on manual aspiration thrombectomy (AT) in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction did not show any significant benefits of AT. Aims: The present meta-analysis was designed to systematically evaluate prospective randomized trials and assess the effects of AT on all-cause mortality, major cardiovascular events (MACE), target vessel revascularization, myocardial reinfarction, stroke and surrogate myocardial perfusion markers. Methods and Results: We conducted an EMBASE and MEDLINE search for studies in which patients were randomized to treatment with AT plus primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) versus PCI. We identified 16 prospective randomized trials which enrolled 10,437 controls that underwent conventional PCI and 10,385 patients who underwent PCI with AT with an average follow-up duration of 5.8 months. A significant reduction in MACE with AT was noted (OR 0.91; 95% CI 0.82-0.99; p = 0.04). In spite of improved TIMI 3 and myocardial blush grade 3 rates, AT did not significantly reduce all-cause mortality, target-vessel revascularization and myocardial infarction. Stroke rates were increased with AT. Conclusion: The results of this large meta-analysis of 20,822 patients suggest that adjunctive AT to PCI may be associated with improved myocardial reperfusion but limited benefits related to the clinical end-points."
meta-analysis	CRD441442	"Comparison between Fondaparinux and Low-Molecular-Weight Heparin in Patients with Acute Coronary Syndrome: A Meta-Analysis Comparison between Fondaparinux and Low-Molecular-Weight Heparin in Patients with Acute Coronary Syndrome: A Meta-Analysis Objective: A number of studies have evaluated the efficacy and safety of fondaparinux versus low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), but the findings were not consistent across these studies. Methods: Electronic databases and article references were searched for studies that assessed fondaparinux versus LMWH in ACS patients. Results: Six studies met the inclusion criteria. There was a lower risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) with fondaparinux-based regimens both in randomized controlled trials (RCT; risk ratio, RR: 0.91, p = 0.04) and observational studies (RR: 0.85, p &lt; 0.0001). Mortality decreased in fondaparinux-treated patients in RCT (RR: 0.84, p = 0.02), but not in observational studies (RR: 1.44, p = 0.64). For the analysis of myocardial infarction (MI), recurrent ischemia and stroke, none of the studies showed significant results. In addition, fondaparinux lowered the risk of major bleeding in RCT (RR: 0.62, p &lt; 0.0001) and observational studies (RR: 0.65, p &lt; 0.0001). The net clinical outcome also favored fondaparinux over LMWH in RCT (RR: 0.82, p &lt; 0.0001) and observational studies (RR: 0.84, p &lt; 0.0001). Conclusions: Among ACS patients, a fondaparinux-based regimen presented advantages regarding MACE and major bleeding, and a net clinical benefit compared with LMWH, although the benefit is minimal regarding MACE. For death, MI, recurrent ischemia and stroke, fondaparinux has not shown significant benefits."
case-report	CRD441487	Left Subclavian Artery Revascularization in Preparation for Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Left Subclavian Artery Revascularization in Preparation for Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Coronary subclavian steal syndrome is a rare but important condition that occurs after a left internal mammary artery (LIMA) to coronary artery bypass in the setting of a stenotic left subclavian artery. The lack of blood flow through the subclavian artery causes the reversal of flow in the LIMA so that it essentially steals blood from the myocardium. In order to avoid this complication, many surgeons now opt to either revascularize the stenotic subclavian artery prior to coronary artery bypass grafting or to use an alternate vessel as the bypass graft. Here, we present the case of an asymptomatic patient with poor exercise tolerance who was recently diagnosed with both triple-vessel coronary disease and peripheral arterial disease, which was most notably characterized by occlusion of the left subclavian artery. This case demonstrates the surgical management of this complex clinical entity.
case-report	CRD441488	"Carcinoid Heart Disease without Severe Tricuspid Valve Involvement Carcinoid Heart Disease without Severe Tricuspid Valve Involvement Carcinoid syndrome causes a rare form of acquired valvular heart disease which typically occurs in the setting of liver metastases. In carcinoid-induced valvular heart disease, the tricuspid valve is almost universally affected; left-sided valve disease occurs infrequently in affected patients. Herein, we report 2 cases of carcinoid-induced valvular heart disease; one case had no evidence of tricuspid valve involvement despite severe involvement of all other valves, while the other case was without severe tricuspid valve involvement."
systematic-review	CRD441562	Is It Time to Update How Suspected Angina Is Evaluated prior to the Use of Specialized Tests? Implications Based on a Systematic Review Is It Time to Update How Suspected Angina Is Evaluated prior to the Use of Specialized Tests? Implications Based on a Systematic Review Objectives: Appropriate use of specialized tests to assess chest pain is based classically on minimal information such as age, gender and the patient's description of pain. This approach has not been reevaluated in decades. We examined the relationship between history, examination and routine laboratory tests to identify factors warranting prospective validation as predictors of underlying coronary artery disease (CAD). Methods: Studies linking obstructive CAD (≥50% diameter stenosis of at least one vessel by invasive angiography or cardiac computed tomographic angiography) and elements of history, examination and laboratory tests were identified. Results: Forty-one prospectively identified papers were analyzed. Advanced age, gender and chest pain descriptors were extremely important, although the last was less so in women, in whom the presence of risk factors may be more important. Physical examination and chest X-ray were largely noncontributory. Laboratory tests were of variable utility other than to identify risk factors not already known from the history. However, biomarkers such as troponin, brain natriuretic factor and inflammatory markers were promising. The electrocardiogram was mainly important for the identification of ST-T abnormalities. Conclusions: This review identifies the most promising factors warranting prospective validation for improving the pretest probability estimation of CAD, so appropriate use criteria for the utilization of specialized diagnostic tests can be updated and improved.
case-report	CRD441970	Platypnea-Orthodeoxia in Patients on Hemodialysis: A New Approach to Its Pathophysiology and Implications for Treatment Platypnea-Orthodeoxia in Patients on Hemodialysis: A New Approach to Its Pathophysiology and Implications for Treatment Platypnea-orthodeoxia is a poorly understood clinical syndrome resulting in dyspnea and hypoxemia in the upright position, which diminishes with recumbency. Recognition of the disease is limited by its low prevalence and decreased awareness among clinicians. However, understanding the disease, its pathophysiology, its clinical presentation, and the possible therapeutic options is vital in the management of these patients. Here, we present 2 cases of platypnea- orthodeoxia where oxygen saturations worsened with hemodialysis. After highlighting the common features in the clinical pattern of each patient, we present a pressure-mediated pathophysiologic mechanism (in contrast to a previously reported morphologically based hypothesis) to explain the characteristic effects of hemodialysis on hypoxia in platypnea-orthodeoxia. We present a novel diagnostic approach using balloon occlusion testing when the diagnosis is unclear and illustrate how treatments can be tailored to the comorbidities of a specific patient.
meta-analysis	CRD444578	"Environmental Iodine Content, Female Sex and Age Are Associated with New-Onset Amiodarone-Induced Hypothyroidism: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Adverse Reactions of Amiodarone on the Thyroid Environmental Iodine Content, Female Sex and Age Are Associated with New-Onset Amiodarone-Induced Hypothyroidism: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Adverse Reactions of Amiodarone on the Thyroid Objectives: To investigate the incidence of new-onset amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism (AIH) and the associated risk factors. Methods: We performed a systematic search in MEDLINE, Embase, the Cochrane Library and the Chinese database from 1995 to 2015. Studies that investigated amiodarone-related adverse reactions on the thyroid were included. A random-effect model was used for the meta-analysis to investigate the incidence rate of AIH and associated risk factors. Results: We identified 465 studies, of which data from 9 studies were included, comprising 1,972 patients. The incidence of AIH was 14.0% (95% confidence interval, CI, 8.7-21.7%) as a whole; it was higher in areas with a high than a low iodine content in the environment (20.3 vs. 8.7%, p &lt; 0.001); subgroup analysis showed that AIH occurred in 19.2% (95% CI 10.2-33.1%) of women and 13.3% (95% CI 7.9-21.7%) of men (p &lt; 0.001). Meta-regression analysis indicated a positive correlation with the mean age and percentage of women. Conclusions: The occurrence of AIH is a relatively frequent complication of amiodarone, and older women are more likely to develop AIH, especially in areas with a high iodine content in the environment, and restriction of total exposure to iodine might decrease the incidence of AIH."
meta-analysis	CRD446640	"Efficacy and Safety of Adjunctive Trimetazidine Therapy for Acute Myocardial Infarction: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Efficacy and Safety of Adjunctive Trimetazidine Therapy for Acute Myocardial Infarction: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Several lines of evidence support the clinical use of trimetazidine as an adjunctive therapy in cardioischemic patients. Therefore, we assessed here the efficacy and safety of adjunctive trimetazidine therapy in acute myocardial infarction (MI) patients by a systematic review and meta-analysis of the current literature. Methods: PubMed, the Cochrane Library, and the China National Knowledge Infrastructure databases were searched for clinical studies comparing adjunctive trimetazidine therapy against placebo in adult acute MI patients. Several clinical outcomes [early/short-term all-cause mortality, long-term all-cause mortality, total major adverse cardiac events (MACE), recurrent nonfatal MI, in-hospital adverse events, target vessel revascularization (TVR), and coronary artery bypass graft (CABG)] were analyzed by the intention-to-treat principle. Odds ratios (OR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) were derived from the number of outcome events in each study arm to estimate the association between adjuvant trimetazidine administration and the various clinical outcomes. A random-effects model was applied for all meta-analyses. Results: We found that adjunctive trimetazidine therapy showed a significant effect upon total MACE (OR = 0.33, 95% CI = 0.15-0.74; p = 0.007) but showed no significant effect upon early/short-term all-cause mortality, long-term all-cause mortality, recurrent nonfatal MI, in-hospital adverse events, TVR, or CABG (p &gt; 0.05). Conclusions: This is the first meta-analysis to report that adjunctive trimetazidine therapy has a beneficial effect upon total MACE in acute MI patients. Clinical investigators should consider further trials on adjunctive trimetazidine therapy in order to better define its risks and benefits in acute MI patients."
meta-analysis	CRD447236	"Efficacy of Ivabradine versus β-Blockers for Heart Rate Reduction during Computed Tomography Coronary Angiography: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Efficacy of Ivabradine versus β-Blockers for Heart Rate Reduction during Computed Tomography Coronary Angiography: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Objective: To quantify the efficacy of pretreatment with ivabradine compared to β-blockers before computed tomography coronary angiography (CTCA) via a meta-analysis of clinical randomized controlled trial data. Methods: We conducted a search for randomized controlled trials of pretreatment with ivabradine compared to β-blockers before CTCA in Medline, PubMed, Embase, SCI/SSCI/A&amp;amp;HCI, SAS Publishers, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Central Register. The Jadad quality score of the included studies, and the mean difference (MD) in heart rate reduction, were indicators of efficacy. RevMan 5.2 and Stata 12.0 software were used for the meta-analysis. Results: Eight studies involving a total of 1,324 patients were included in the final analysis. The results showed that ivabradine was significantly more effective at improving the heart rate of patients achieving the target heart rate (&lt;65 bpm) during CTCA (OR 5.02; 95% CI 3.16-7.98, p &lt; 0.00001, I2 = 20%). A comparison of efficacy between ivabradine and β-blockers showed a statistically significant effect of ivabradine on heart rate reduction during CTCA (MD -4.39; 95% CI −4.80 to −3.99, p &lt; 0.00001, I2 = 0%). Ivabradine also led to a significant reduction in heart rate prior to CTCA (MD −5.33; 95% CI −10.26 to −0.39, p = 0.03, I2 = 92%). In terms of the total reduction in heart rate during CTCA, significant differences were noted between the ivabradine group and the β-blocker group (MD 2.64; 95% CI 1.25-4.02, p = 0.0002, I2 = 0%). The mean percentage reduction in heart rate in the ivabradine group was significantly higher than that in the β-blocker group (MD 7.18; 95% CI 5.64-8.72, p &lt; 0.00001, I2 = 43%). Ivabradine had no significant effect on either systolic blood pressure (BP) (MD 11.41; 95% CI 6.43-16.40, p &lt; 0.00001, I2 = 85%) or diastolic BP (MD 1.79; 95% CI -0.00 to 3.58, p = 0.05, I2 = 56%). Conclusion: Compared to β-blockers for heart rate reduction, ivabradine is a potentially attractive alternative for patients undergoing CTCA."
meta-analysis	CRD447237	"Efficacy of Intravenous and Oral Sotalol in Pharmacologic Conversion of Atrial Fibrillation: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Efficacy of Intravenous and Oral Sotalol in Pharmacologic Conversion of Atrial Fibrillation: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: The role of sotalol is well established for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after successful conversion of atrial fibrillation (AF). However, its role in pharmacologic conversion of AF is poorly defined. The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of sotalol to that of other antiarrhythmic agents for AF conversion. Methods: Standard methods of meta-analysis were employed. Full-text publications of clinical trials in English that compared the efficacy of sotalol to that of other antiarrhythmics or placebo/no treatment were eligible for inclusion. Results: A systematic review revealed 10 eligible publications. Sotalol was superior to placebo and/or no antiarrhythmic therapy in AF conversion, with a relative success of 24 (95% CI 4.7-119, p &lt; 0.001). Sotalol was not significantly different from class IA antiarrhythmic drugs. Similarly, sotalol was not different from class IC antiarrhythmic drugs or amiodarone in terms of conversion efficacy. In one study, sotalol was less effective than high-dose ibutilide (2 mg), with a relative success of 0.248 (95% CI 0.128-0.481, p &lt; 0.001). Ibutilide caused more proarrhythmia. Conclusions: Sotalol is as effective as class IA and class IC antiarrhythmic agents, and it is also as effective as amiodarone for pharmacologic conversion of AF. Only ibutilide at a high dose showed a greater conversion rate of AF."
meta-analysis	CRD448088	"The Effect of Exercise Training Intensity on Quality of Life in Heart Failure Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Effect of Exercise Training Intensity on Quality of Life in Heart Failure Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: To establish if exercise training intensity produces different effect sizes for quality of life in heart failure. Background: Exercise intensity is the primary stimulus for physical and mental adaptation. Methods: We conducted a MEDLINE search (1985 to February 2016) for exercise-based rehabilitation trials in heart failure using the search terms ‘exercise training', ‘left ventricular dysfunction', ‘peak VO2', ‘cardiomyopathy', and ‘systolic heart dysfunction'. Results: Twenty-five studies were included; 4 (16%) comprised high-, 10 (40%) vigorous-, 9 (36%) moderate- and 0 (0%) low-intensity groups; two studies were unclassified. The 25 studies provided a total of 2,385 participants, 1,223 exercising and 1,162 controls (36,056 patient-hours of training). Analyses reported significant improvement in total Minnesota living with heart failure (MLWHF) total score [mean difference (MD) -8.24, 95% CI -11.55 to -4.92, p &lt; 0.00001]. Physical MLWHF scorewas significantly improved in all studies (MD -2.89, 95% CI -4.27 to -1.50, p &lt; 0.00001). MLWHF total score was significantly reduced after high- (MD -13.74, 95% CI -21.34 to -6.14, p = 0.0004) and vigorous-intensity training (MD -8.56, 95% CI -12.77 to -4.35, p &lt; 0.0001) but not moderate-intensity training. A significant improvement in the total MLWHF score was seen after aerobic training (MD -3.87, 95% CI -6.97 to -0.78, p = 0.01), and combined aerobic and resistance training (MD -9.82, 95% CI -15.71 to -3.92, p = 0.001), but not resistance training. Conclusions: As exercise training intensity rises, so may the magnitude of improvement in quality of life in exercising patients. Aerobic-only or combined aerobic and resistance training may offer the greatest improvements in quality of life."
review-article	CRD478901	T1 and T2 Mapping in Cardiology: “Mapping the Obscure Object of Desire” T1 and T2 Mapping in Cardiology: “Mapping the Obscure Object of Desire” The increasing use of cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is based on its capability to perform biventricular function assessment and tissue characterization without radiation and with high reproducibility. The use of late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) gave the potential of non-invasive biopsy for fibrosis quantification. However, LGE is unable to detect diffuse myocardial disease. Native T1 mapping and extracellular volume fraction (ECV) provide knowledge about pathologies affecting both the myocardium and interstitium that is otherwise difficult to identify. Changes of myocardial native T1 reflect cardiac diseases (acute coronary syndromes, infarction, myocarditis, and diffuse fibrosis, all with high T1) and systemic diseases such as cardiac amyloid (high T1), Anderson-Fabry disease (low T1), and siderosis (low T1). The ECV, an index generated by native and post-contrast T1 mapping, measures the cellular and extracellular interstitial matrix (ECM) compartments. This myocyte-ECM dichotomy has important implications for identifying specific therapeutic targets of great value for heart failure treatment. On the other hand, T2 mapping is superior compared with myocardial T1 and ECM for assessing the activity of myocarditis in recent-onset heart failure. Although these indices can significantly affect the clinical decision making, multicentre studies and a community-wide approach (including MRI vendors, funding, software, contrast agent manufacturers, and clinicians) are still missing.
review-article	CRD490373	Diabetes Mellitus: Is It Protective against Aneurysm? A Narrative Review Diabetes Mellitus: Is It Protective against Aneurysm? A Narrative Review Objectives: In the course of extensive clinical aortic surgery, we noticed that the aorta was quite thick and fibrotic in diabetic patients. We thought the diabetic aortic aorta might be inimitable to aortic dissection. On this basis, we set out to review information in the literature regarding aortic growth and dissection in diabetic patients. Methods: We used a 2-step search approach to the available literature on diabetes and aneurysm. Firstly, databases including PubMed, Cochrane, Embase and TRIP were searched. Secondly, relevant studies were identified through secondary sources including references of initially selected articles. We address the relationship between diabetes and the incidence, prevalence, growth, mortality and rupture of an aneurysm. Results: Diabetes is thought to exert a protective role in both thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) and abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Diabetics were shown to have a slower aneurysm growth rate, lower rupture rate, delayed (&
research-article	CRD493785	"Acute-Phase Plasma PCSK9 Levels and Recurrent Cardiovascular Events in a Chinese Acute Myocardial Infarction Cohort Acute-Phase Plasma PCSK9 Levels and Recurrent Cardiovascular Events in a Chinese Acute Myocardial Infarction Cohort Background: Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is a promising target for lowering plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and preventing cardiovascular (CV) disease. Whether plasma PCSK9 measured during the acute phase predicts recurrent CV events in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) remains unresolved. Methods and Results: Plasma PCSK9 levels were measured in 1,646 patients with AMI from the China PEACE-Prospective AMI Study at the acute phase. Additionally, 248 patients were resampled and measured at 1 month post-AMI. Associations of acute-phase PCSK9 tertiles with clinical characteristics and recurrent CV events within 1 year were assessed. Female gender (OR 1.94, 95% CI 1.24–3.03), premature coronary heart disease (CHD; OR 2.12, 95% CI 1.37–3.26), higher high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (OR 1.67, 95% CI 1.44–1.95), and higher triglycerides (OR 1.46, 95% CI 1.03–2.09) were associated with higher baseline PCSK9. Plasma PCSK9 levels in the highest tertile (versus lowest) did not have an increased risk of 1-year recurrent CV events in the AMI cohort (HR 0.78, 95% CI 0.52–1.16) or any subgroup. There was also no association between percentage changes in PCSK9 over the first month and 1-year recurrent events, although there was a trend of differences between patients in the upper versus lower tertiles. Conclusion: Plasma PCSK9 levels measured during the acute phase were associated with high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, triglycerides, premature CHD, and gender in patients with AMI but did not predict recurrent CV events within 1 year. Dynamic changes in PCSK9 suggested a trend yet no significance value in predicting recurrent CV events."
systematic-review	CRE308567	"Systematic Review of the Prevalence of Tooth Wear in Children and Adolescents Systematic Review of the Prevalence of Tooth Wear in Children and Adolescents Data on the prevalence of tooth wear among children and adolescents are inconsistent. Given the impact of extensive tooth wear for over a lifetime, evidence on the extent is required. The aim was to systematically review the literature on the prevalence of tooth wear in children and adolescents. A PubMed literature search (1980–2008) used the keywords ‘tooth’ AND ‘wear’; ‘dental’ AND ‘attrition’ AND ‘prevalence’; ‘dental’ AND ‘wear’ AND ‘prevalence’; ‘erosion AND prevalence’ AND ‘abrasion AND prevalence’. Following exclusion criteria, 29 papers were reviewed using established review methods. There was a total of 45,186 subjects (smallest study 80 and largest study 17,047 subjects) examined from thirteen multiple random clusters, eight multiple convenience clusters and eight convenience clusters. Nine different tooth wear indices were used, but the common denominator among studies was dentin exposure as an indicator of severe wear. Forest plots indicated substantial heterogeneity of the included studies. Prevalence of wear involving dentin ranged from 0 to 82% for deciduous teeth in children up to 7 years; regression analysis showed age and wear to be significantly related. Most of the studies in the permanent dentition showed low dentin exposure, a few reported high prevalence (range 0–54%); age and wear were not related (regression analysis). The results of this systematic review indicate that the prevalence of tooth wear leading to dentin exposure in deciduous teeth increases with age. Increase in wear of permanent teeth with age in adolescents up to 18 years old was not substantiated."
systematic-review	CRE315346	The Caries-Preventive Effect of Chlorhexidine Varnish in Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review The Caries-Preventive Effect of Chlorhexidine Varnish in Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review Aims: Our purpose was to systematically review the literature on the effectiveness of chlorhexidine varnish for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents and to determine its effectiveness compared to fluoride varnish. Methods: MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library were searched through December 2009 to identify relevant randomised trials with blind outcome assessment and a minimum duration of 1 year. The search was later updated in MEDLINE and the Cochrane Library to March 19th, 2010. Risk of bias of the included trials was assessed. The primary outcome was the caries increment. Results: Twelve trials met the inclusion criteria for the review. There was considerable variation between trials in the concentration and frequency of application of the chlorhexidine varnish, in baseline caries levels and in background exposure to fluoride. Six parallel-group trials reported no statistically significant difference in caries increment in permanent teeth with the application of chlorhexidine varnish compared to placebo or no treatment. The results of 4 split-mouth trials were conflicting: 2 trials found no significant difference in caries increment and 2 reported statistically significant results in favour of chlorhexidine varnish. One trial of the effect of chlorhexidine varnish in primary teeth demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in caries increment. The results of 1 trial comparing chlorhexidine varnish with fluoride varnish for preventing caries in adolescents were equivocal. Conclusion: Evidence regarding the effectiveness of chlorhexidine varnish for preventing caries is inconclusive. Further well-conducted randomised trials are required before chlorhexidine varnish can be recommended for caries prevention.
systematic-review	CRE327374	The Effect of Chlorhexidine Varnish on Root Caries: A Systematic Review The Effect of Chlorhexidine Varnish on Root Caries: A Systematic Review Objective: The aim of this study was to systematically review the present literature on the effect of chlorhexidine varnish (CHX-V) on root caries. Materials and Methods: The MEDLINE-PubMed, the Cochrane-CENTRAL and EMBASE databases were searched through December 2010 to identify any appropriate studies. Root caries incidence and root caries activity were selected as outcome variables. Results: An independent screening of the unique titles and abstracts of 24 MEDLINE-PubMed, 14 Cochrane-CENTRAL and 18 EMBASE papers resulted in 6 publications that met the eligibility criteria. Data extraction provided no conclusive evidence that the application of CHX-V is effective in patients when regular professional oral prophylaxis is performed. If effective, the 40% CHX-V was found to provide a benefit over a control or fluoride varnish. CHX-V at lower concentrations (1 and 10%) may provide protection against root caries in high-risk patients (such as geriatric and xerostomia patients) in the absence of regular professional oral prophylaxis. Conclusion: Within the limitations of this review, it may be concluded that in the absence of regular professional tooth cleaning and oral hygiene instructions, CHX-V may provide a beneficial effect in patients in need of special care. The strength of this recommendation is graded as ‘weak’.
systematic-review	CRE346917	Systematic Review of Publications on Economic Evaluations of Caries Prevention Programs Systematic Review of Publications on Economic Evaluations of Caries Prevention Programs The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review of economic evaluations (EEs) of dental caries prevention programs to objectively retrieve, synthesize and describe available information on the field. Several strategies were combined to search for literature published between January 1975 and April 2012. MEDLINE, EconoLit and ISI formed the basis of the literature search. The study selection was done using predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Bibliographic listings of all retrieved articles were hand-searched. The search identified 206 references. An evaluative framework was developed based on the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination’s ‘Guidance for undertaking reviews in health care’ (York University, 2009). Background information included publication vehicle, year of publication, geographic focus, type of preventive program and type of economic analysis. 63 studies were included in the review. The most common preventive strategies evaluated were dental sealants (n = 13), water fluoridation (n = 12) and mixed interventions (n = 12). By type of EE undertaken, 30 were cost-effectiveness analyses, 22 were cost-benefit analyses, and 5 presented both cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses. Few studies were cost-utility analyses (n = 5) or cost minimization analyses (n = 2). By year of publication, most were published after 2003. The review revealed that, although the number of publications reporting EEs has increased significantly in recent years, the quality of the reporting needs to be improved. The main methodological problems identified in the review were the limited information provided on adjustments for discounting in addition to inadequate sensitivity analyses. Attention also needs to be given to the analysis and interpretation of the results of the EEs.
systematic-review	CRE351829	"Analysis of Health Behaviour Change Interventions for Preventing Dental Caries Delivered in Primary Schools Analysis of Health Behaviour Change Interventions for Preventing Dental Caries Delivered in Primary Schools To improve oral health in children, the key behaviours (tooth brushing and sugar control) responsible for development of dental caries need to be better understood, as well as how to promote these behaviours effectively so they become habitual; and, the specific, optimal techniques to use in interventions. The aim of this paper is to describe and analyse the behaviour change techniques that have been used in primary school-based interventions to prevent dental caries (utilizing a Cochrane systematic review that we have undertaken) and to identify opportunities for improving future interventions by incorporating a comprehensive range of behaviour change techniques. Papers of five interventions were reviewed and data were independently extracted. Results indicate that behaviour change techniques were limited to information-behaviour links, information on consequences, instruction and demonstration of behaviours. None of the interventions were based on behaviour change theory. We conclude that behaviour change techniques used in school interventions to reduce dental caries were limited and focused around providing information about how behaviour impacts on health and the consequences of not developing the correct health behaviours as well as providing oral hygiene instruction. Establishing which techniques are effective is difficult due to poor reporting of interventions in studies. Future design of oral health promotion interventions using behaviour change theory for development and evaluation (and reporting results in academic journals) could strengthen the potential for efficacy and provide a framework to use a much wider range of behaviour change techniques. Future studies should include development and publication of intervention manuals which is becoming standard practice in other health promoting programmes."
systematic-review	CRE351832	Family Relationships as an Explanatory Variable in Childhood Dental Caries: A Systematic Review of Measures Family Relationships as an Explanatory Variable in Childhood Dental Caries: A Systematic Review of Measures It is widely acknowledged that parental beliefs (self-efficacy) about oral health and parental oral health-related behaviours play a fundamental role in the establishment of preventative behaviours that will mitigate against the development of childhood dental caries. However, little attention has been given to the wider perspective of family functioning and family relationships on child oral health. For oral health researchers, exploration of this association requires the use of reliable, valid and appropriate assessment tools to measure family relationships. In order to promote methodologically sound research in oral health, this systematic review aims to provide a guide on self-report psychometric measures of family functioning that may be suitable to utilize when exploring childhood dental caries. This systematic review has identified 29 self-report measures of family functioning and evaluated them in terms of their psychometric support, constructs measured and potential utility for oral health research. The majority of the measures reported adequate levels of reliability and construct validity. Construct evaluation of the measures identified five core domains of family functioning, namely ‘communication', ‘cohesion/engagement', ‘control', ‘involvement' and ‘authoritative/rigid parenting style'. The constructs were subsequently evaluated with respect to their potential relevance to child oral health. Herewith this review provides a framework to guide future research to explore family functioning in furthering our understanding of the development of childhood dental caries.
systematic-review	CRE365948	"Clinical Relevance of Studies on the Accuracy of Visual Inspection for Detecting Caries Lesions: A Systematic Review Clinical Relevance of Studies on the Accuracy of Visual Inspection for Detecting Caries Lesions: A Systematic Review Although visual inspection is the most commonly used method for caries detection, and consequently the most investigated, studies have not been concerned about the clinical relevance of this procedure. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review in order to perform a critical evaluation considering the clinical relevance and methodological quality of studies on the accuracy of visual inspection for assessing caries lesions. Two independent reviewers searched several databases through July 2013 to identify papers/articles published in English. Other sources were checked to identify unpublished literature. The eligible studies were those which (1) assessed the accuracy of the visual method for detecting caries lesions on occlusal, approximal or smooth surfaces, in primary or permanent teeth, (2) used a reference standard, and (3) reported data about sample size and accuracy of the methods. Aspects related to clinical relevance and the methodological quality of the studies were evaluated. 96 of the 5,578 articles initially identified met the inclusion criteria. In general, most studies failed in considering some clinically relevant aspects: only 1 included study validated activity status of lesions, no study considered its prognosis, 79 studies did not consider a clinically relevant outcome, and only 1 evaluated a patient-centred outcome. Concerning methodological quality, the majority of the studies presented a high risk of bias in sample selection. In conclusion, studies on the accuracy of the visual method for caries detection should consider clinically relevant outcomes besides accuracy; moreover, they should be conducted with higher methodological quality, mainly regarding sample selection."
meta-analysis	CRE435894	Anti-Caries Effect of Arginine-Containing Formulations in vivo: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Anti-Caries Effect of Arginine-Containing Formulations in vivo: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: To assess the anti-caries effect of arginine-containing formulations in vivo on caries lesions compared with fluorides or placebo. Methods: Randomized or quasi-randomized human clinical trials wherein arginine was delivered by any method were considered. The MEDLINE, Web of Science, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, and CBM databases were searched to identify relevant articles published up to December 2014. Grey literature was also searched. Two authors performed data extraction independently and in duplicate using data collection forms. Each included study was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias assessment tool. Results: Of the 470 studies screened, 31 full articles were scrutinized and assessed for eligibility. Ten studies (n = 15,546 participants) were selected for final inclusion. The meta-analysis results (n = 7 studies) demonstrated a synergistic effect of arginine when used in conjunction with fluoride on early coronal and root caries compared with placebo or fluoride alone. No specific side effects related to arginine usage were identified. Conclusions: When used in combination with a calcium compound and fluoride, arginine potentially provides a superior anti-caries effect compared with matched formulations of fluoride alone. However, the level of evidence was downgraded because of risks of bias and potential publication bias. In the future, more high quality, non-industry-supported clinical studies in this research area are required before any definitive recommendations can be made.
systematic-review	CRE439180	"Fluoride Rinses, Gels and Foams: An Update of Controlled Clinical Trials Fluoride Rinses, Gels and Foams: An Update of Controlled Clinical Trials Aim: The aim of this conference paper was to systematically review the quality of evidence and summarize the findings of clinical trials published after 2002 using fluoride mouth rinses, fluoride gels or foams for the prevention of dental caries. Methods: Relevant papers were selected after an electronic search for literature published in English between 2003 and 2014. The included papers were assessed for their risk of bias and the results were narratively synthesized due to study heterogeneity. The quality of evidence was expressed according to GRADE. Results: A total of 19 papers were included (6 on fluoride mouth rinse, 10 on fluoride gel and 3 on fluoride foam); 6 had a low risk of bias while 2 had a moderate risk. All fluoride measures appeared to be beneficial in preventing crown caries and reversing root caries, but the quality of evidence was graded as low for fluoride mouth rinse, moderate for fluoride gel and very low for acidulated fluoride foam. No conclusions could be drawn on the cost-effectiveness. Conclusions: This review, covering the recent decade, has further substantiated the evidence for a caries-preventive effect of fluoride mouth rinse, fluoride gel and foam, previously established in systematic reviews. The lack of clinical trials free from bias is, however, still a concern, especially for fluoride mouth rinses and fluoride foam. There is also a scientific knowledge gap on the benefit and optimal use of these fluoride supplements in combination with daily tooth brushing with fluoride toothpaste."
systematic-review	CRE442797	"High Fluoride Concentration Toothpastes for Children and Adolescents High Fluoride Concentration Toothpastes for Children and Adolescents The purpose of this review is to present the available evidence to support the use of dentifrices with high (&gt;1,500 ppm) concentrations of fluoride to help in the prevention and treatment of caries in high-risk children and adolescents. Recent evidence from high-quality systematic reviews supports the dose-response relationship between caries prevention and fluoride levels, and there is good evidence from randomised clinical trials to support the use of high fluoride dentifrices. Such products are typically prescribed oral pharmaceuticals that require thorough risk assessment by the clinician and restricting use in those less than 6 years old to cases where the risk of severe morbidity caused by caries is greater than that of aesthetically objectionable fluorosis and which should mitigate the risk of fluorosis. Further research is required on the use of population- or community-based interventions using such products and currently, the evidence for dentifrices containing more than 2,900 ppm is weaker than for those containing 2,800 ppm or less."
systematic-review	CRE444268	Fluoride Varnish for Caries Prevention: Efficacy and Implementation Fluoride Varnish for Caries Prevention: Efficacy and Implementation Many reviews support fluoride varnish (FV) as a caries-inhibitory agent. Evidence from 6 Cochrane systematic reviews involving 200 trials and more than 80,000 participants further confirms the effectiveness of FV, applied professionally 2-4 times a year, for preventing dental caries in both primary and permanent teeth. The relative benefit of FV application seems to occur irrespective of baseline caries risk, baseline caries severity, background exposure to fluorides, use of fluoride toothpaste and application features such as prior prophylaxis, concentration of fluoride or frequency of application. While the efficacy of FV is acknowledged in clinical practice guidelines globally, the implementation of this recommendation may still be an issue. Factors that may facilitate FV application in the USA include Medicaid eligibility, relationships with dentists/community centers and strong cooperation and communication between physicians and support staff. Barriers include insufficient time to integrate oral health services into well-child visits, difficulty in applying FV (lack of skills/training) and resistance among colleagues and staff. Research in the UK/Scotland also suggests encouraging clinicians in their motivation to perform this treatment and addressing professional and parental concerns relating to possible negative consequences may be influential. Further research targeting cost-effectiveness and how FV in routine care may fit in with political agendas relating to, for example, inequalities in health care provision and access will also play a key part in stakeholder decisions to put resources into this issue.
research-article	CRE444537	Re- and Demineralization Characteristics of Enamel Depending on Baseline Mineral Loss and Lesion Depth in situ Re- and Demineralization Characteristics of Enamel Depending on Baseline Mineral Loss and Lesion Depth in situ Objectives: The aim of this double-blinded, randomized, cross-over in situ study was to evaluate the re- and demineralization characteristics of sound enamel as well as lowly and highly demineralized caries-like enamel lesions after the application of different fluoride compounds. Methods: In each of three experimental legs of 4 weeks, 21 participants wore intraoral mandibular appliances containing 4 bovine enamel specimens (2 lowly and 2 highly demineralized). Each specimen included one sound enamel and either one lowly demineralized (7 days, pH 4.95) or one highly demineralized (21 days, pH 4.95) lesion, and was positioned 1 mm below the acrylic under a plastic mesh. The three randomly allocated treatments (application only) included the following dentifrices: (1) 1,100 ppm F as NaF, (2) 1,100 ppm F as SnF2 and (3) 0 ppm F (fluoride-free) as negative control. Differences in integrated mineral loss (&
systematic-review	CRE446249	"Arginine and Caries Prevention: A Systematic Review Arginine and Caries Prevention: A Systematic Review Objectives: To evaluate the available evidence that the use of arginine-containing dental care products prevents the development of new caries lesions and the progression of existing lesions. Search Methods: We performed a systematic literature search of databases including PubMed, the Cochrane Library and EMBASE. Selection Criteria: We selected randomized controlled trials of treatment with arginine in fluoride-containing dental products measuring dental caries incidence or progression in children, adults and elderly subjects. Data Collection and Analysis: Two review authors independently assessed trials for risk of bias and evaluated overall study quality using the GRADE classification. Main Results: Due to conflicts of interest and weak transferability to Swedish conditions, no conclusions can be drawn from studies on the effects of arginine-fluoride toothpaste in children. Arginine-containing toothpaste costs about 40% more than basic fluoride toothpaste; to determine whether it is more cost-effective, the higher cost must be considered in relation to any additional caries-preventive effect. The literature review also disclosed some questionable research ethics: in several of the studies, the children in the control group used non-fluoride toothpaste. Toothpaste without fluoride is not as effective against dental caries as the standard treatment - fluoride toothpaste - which has a well-documented effect. This contravenes the fundamental principles of research ethics. Conclusion: At present there is insufficient evidence in support of a caries-preventive effect for the inclusion of arginine in toothpastes. More rigorous studies, and studies which are less dependent on commercial interests, are required."
review-article	CRE450891	Discrete Distribution Based on Compound Sum to Model Dental Caries Count Data Discrete Distribution Based on Compound Sum to Model Dental Caries Count Data Methods for analysing dental caries and associated risk indicators have evolved considerably in recent decades. The use of zero-inflated or hurdle models is increasing so as to take account of the decayed, missing, and filled teeth (DMFT) distribution, which is positively skewed and has a high proportion of zero scores. However, there is a need to develop new statistical models that involve pragmatic biological considerations on dental caries in epidemiological surveys. In this paper, we show that the zero-inflated and the hurdle models can both be expressed as a compound sum. Using the same compound sum, we then present the generalized negative binomial (GNB) distribution for dental caries count data, and provide a numerical application using the data of the EPIPAP study. The GNB model generates the best score functions while handling the lifetime dental caries disease process better. In conclusion, the GNB model suits the nature of some count data, in particular when structural zeros are unlikely to occur and when several latent spells can lead to new countable events. For these reasons, the use of the GNB distribution appears to be relevant for the modelling of dental caries count data.
meta-analysis	CRE452345	"MMP20 rs1784418 Protects Certain Populations against Caries MMP20 rs1784418 Protects Certain Populations against Caries This work aimed to further evaluate the association of MMP20 rs1784418 C&gt;T and dental caries experience with the hypothesis that MMP20 rs1784418 C&gt;T is a risk factor for dental caries. 184 children 4-7 years of age had their caries experience determined and buccal cheek swabs collected for DNA extraction to test for association with the MMP20 rs1784418 C&gt;T using standard statistical approaches. A meta-analytic approach was also implemented to compile previous discrepant reports of the same association. We found an association between MMP20 rs1784418 C&gt;T and dental caries experience in primary dentition (p = 0.01). The meta-analysis showed that this association appears to favor individuals born in Brazil and not Turkey. MMP20 rs1784418 C&gt;T appears to protect against dental caries, but its effects are likely to be more marked in certain populations."
systematic-review	CRE458729	"In-Office Application of Fluoride Gel or Varnish: Cost-Effectiveness and Expected Value of Perfect Information Analysis In-Office Application of Fluoride Gel or Varnish: Cost-Effectiveness and Expected Value of Perfect Information Analysis Application of fluoride gel/varnish (FG/FV) reduces caries increments but generates costs. Avoiding restorative treatments by preventing caries might compensate for these costs. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of dentists applying FG/FV in office and the expected value of perfect information (EVPI). EVPI analyses estimate the economic value of having perfect knowledge, assisting research resource allocation. A mixed public-private-payer perspective in Germany was adopted. A population of 12-year-olds was followed over their lifetime, with caries increments modelled using wide intervals to reflect the uncertainty of caries risk. Biannual application of FV/FG until age 18 years was compared to no fluoride application. Effectiveness parameters and their uncertainty were derived from systematic reviews. The health outcome was caries increment (decayed, missing, or filled teeth; DMFT). Cost calculations were based on fee catalogs or microcosting, including costs for individual-prophylactic fluoridation and, for FG, an individualized tray, plus material costs. Microsimulations, sensitivity, and EVPI analyses were performed. On average and applied to a largely low-risk population, no application of fluoride was least costly but also least effective (EUR 230; 11 DMFT). FV was more costly and effective (EUR 357; 7 DMFT). FG was less effective than FV and also more costly when using individualized trays. FV was the best choice for payers willing to invest EUR 39 or more per avoided DMFT. This cost-effectiveness will differ in different settings/countries or if FG/FV is applied by other care professionals. The EVPI was mainly driven by the individual's caries risk, as FV/FG were significantly more cost-effective in high-risk populations than in low-risk ones. Future studies should focus on caries risk prediction."
meta-analysis	CRE478668	"Silver Diamine Fluoride Has Efficacy in Controlling Caries Progression in Primary Teeth: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Silver Diamine Fluoride Has Efficacy in Controlling Caries Progression in Primary Teeth: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis A systematic review was performed to evaluate the efficacy of silver diamine fluoride (SDF) in controlling caries progression in children when compared with active treatments or placebos. A search for randomized clinical trials that evaluate the effectiveness of SDF for caries control in children compared to active treatments or placebos with follow-ups longer than 6 months was performed in PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, LILACS, BBO, Cochrane Library, and grey literature. The risk of bias tool from the Cochrane Collaboration was used for quality assessment of the studies. The quality of the evidence was evaluated using the GRADE approach. Meta-analysis was performed on studies considered at low risk of bias. A total of 5,980 articles were identified. Eleven remained in the qualitative synthesis. Five studies were at “low,” 2 at “unclear,” and 4 studies at “high” risk of bias in the key domains. The studies from which the information could be extracted were included for meta-analysis. The arrestment of caries at 12 months promoted by SDF was 66% higher (95% CI 41-91%; p &lt; 0.00001) than by other active material, but it was 154% higher (95% CI 67-85%; p &lt; 0.00001) than by placebos. Overall, the caries arrestment was 89% higher (95% CI 49-138%; p &lt; 0.00001) than using active materials/placebo. No heterogeneity was detected. The evidence was graded as high quality. The use of SDF is 89% more effective in controlling/arresting caries than other treatments or placebos. The quality of the evidence was graded as high."
systematic-review	CRE481407	Determinants of Dental Care Attendance during Pregnancy: A Systematic Review Determinants of Dental Care Attendance during Pregnancy: A Systematic Review Despite the fact that dental care attendance during pregnancy has been recommended by guidelines and institutions, the demand for dental services is still low among pregnant women. The aim of this study was to identify and analyze the determinants of dental care attendance during pregnancy. We performed a systematic literature search in the electronic databases PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature, Brazilian Library in Dentistry, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Medline using relevant keywords. Studies were filtered by publication year (2000-2016) and language (English, Portuguese, Spanish, and French). The included studies were assessed for quality. Their characteristics and statistically significant factors were reported. Fourteen papers were included in the review. The prevalence of dental service usage during pregnancy ranged from 16 to 83%. Demographic factors included women's age, marital status, parity, and nationality. The socioeconomic factors were income, educational level, and type of health insurance. Many psychological and behavioral factors played a role, including oral health practices, oral health and pregnancy beliefs, and health care maintenance. Referred symptoms of gingivitis, dental pain, or dental problems were perceived need. Demographic, socioeconomic, psychological, behavioral factors and perceived need were associated with the utilization of dental services during pregnancy. More well-designed studies with reliable outcomes are required to confirm the framework described in this review.
meta-analysis	CRE481833	"Candida albicans and Early Childhood Caries: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Candida albicans and Early Childhood Caries: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Oral Candida albicans has been detected in children with early childhood caries (ECC) and has demonstrated cariogenic traits in animal models of the disease. Conversely, other studies found no positive correlation between C. albicans and caries experience in children, while suggesting it may have protective effects as a commensal organism. Thus, this study aimed to examine whether oral C. albicans is associated with ECC. Seven electronic databases were searched. The data from eligible studies were extracted, and the risk of bias was evaluated. A fixed effects model (Mantel-Haenszel estimate) was used for meta-analysis, and the summary effect measure was calculated by odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI). Fifteen cross-sectional studies were included for the qualitative assessment and 9 studies for meta-analysis. Twelve studies revealed higher oral C. albicans prevalence in ECC children than in caries-free children, while 2 studies indicated an equivalent prevalence. A pooled estimate, with OR = 6.51 and 95% CI = 4.94-8.57, indicated a significantly higher ECC experience in children with oral C. albicans than those without C. albicans (p &lt; 0.01). The odds of experiencing ECC in children with C. albicans versus children without C. albicans were 5.26 for salivary, 6.69 for plaque, and 6.3 for oral swab samples. This systematic review indicates that children with oral C. albicans have &gt;5 times higher odds of having ECC compared to those without C. albicans. Further prospective cohort studies are needed to determine whether C. albicans could be a risk factor for ECC, and whether it is dependent on different sample sources (saliva/plaque)."
meta-analysis	CRE484988	"Association between Dental Caries and BMI in Children: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Association between Dental Caries and BMI in Children: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Research on the association between dental caries and body mass index (BMI) in children has shown contradictory results; thus we aimed to examine the association between dental caries and the full range of BMI classes among children. We comprehensively searched PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library for studies published prior to March 2017. Articles comparing dental caries among the full range of BMI classes for children below 18 years of both genders were included. Fourteen studies were eligible for this study. Basic information - i.e., first author, published year, study design, country, sample size, age, type of dental caries index and BMI, main results and conclusions, and means and standard deviations of the dental caries indexes used - was pooled. The weighted mean differences and corresponding 95% confidence intervals for dental caries between children with abnormal weight and those with normal weight were analyzed. Generally, no significant differences in caries were found between any abnormal-weight group and the normal-weight group for both primary and permanent teeth. Sensitivity analyses showed that the obese group had more caries than the normal-weight group in their primary teeth. Significantly more caries was found among the overweight and obese children in both primary and permanent teeth in high-income countries, but not in low- and middle-income countries. We recommend that further studies use suitable sample sizes, unify the criteria for BMI categorization and the dental caries index, and investigate the confounding factors that might influence dental caries and BMI."
case-report	CRG442462	Primary Hepatic Small-Cell Carcinoma Developed during Antiviral Treatment for Chronic Hepatitis B Primary Hepatic Small-Cell Carcinoma Developed during Antiviral Treatment for Chronic Hepatitis B Previously reported cases of primary hepatic small-cell carcinoma were all detected at progressed state with associated symptoms. Therefore, the natural course of primary hepatic small-cell carcinoma remains unknown. This case shows the natural course of primary hepatic small-cell carcinoma. We detected a 1.2 cm hypodense nodule 6 months ago in a patient with cirrhosis who had been taking entecavir. It was suspected to be a regenerating or degenerating nodule. Three months later, liver computed tomography (CT) revealed that the mass was increased to 2.1 cm with the same characteristics. The patient wanted to do a follow-up CT scan after 3 months instead of a biopsy. Another 3 months later, the mass was markedly increased, involving the whole left lobe and was confirmed as small-cell carcinoma on biopsy. Here, we report the first case of primary hepatic small-cell carcinoma developed during treatment for chronic hepatitis B with cirrhosis.
case-report	CRG444520	Appendiceal Perforation due to Migration of a Dental Instrument Appendiceal Perforation due to Migration of a Dental Instrument A 40-year-old male without any past medical history accidentally swallowed a titanium dental instrument (reamer) for root canal treatment. A cathartic was prescribed at a local hospital, and the course was observed. However, since the reamer was not excreted in feces, he was referred to our hospital. After admission, CT, lower gastrointestinal endoscopy, and barium enema revealed the migration of a foreign body into the appendix and its protrusion into the intraperitoneal cavity. As an emergency operation, laparoscopic appendectomy including the foreign body was performed. The following course was favorable without postoperative complications, and he was discharged on the 2nd hospital day. We report a patient with appendiceal perforation due to a foreign body (dental instrument for root canal treatment) in the appendix.
case-report	CRG446641	Presence of Cytokeratin 19-Expressing Cholangiocarcinoma-Like Tumour in a Liver Metastatic Lesion of Rectal Neuroendocrine Tumour Presence of Cytokeratin 19-Expressing Cholangiocarcinoma-Like Tumour in a Liver Metastatic Lesion of Rectal Neuroendocrine Tumour Introduction: Tumours with adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine components have often been reported, although the reason underlying the dual components remains unclear. Case Presentation: A 43-year-old woman with multiple liver metastatic lesions of rectal neuroendocrine tumour underwent primary tumour resection and subsequent liver transplantation. Pathological examination indicated a cholangiocarcinoma-like tumour with gland formation, adjacent to a liver metastatic lesion of the neuroendocrine tumour. This tumour comprised atypical columnar epithelium, and stained positively for neuroendocrine markers and the ductal marker cytokeratin 19, indicating amphicrine properties and a partial cholangiocarcinoma phenotype – features not observed in the primary and metastatic neuroendocrine tumours. Conclusion: The presence of adenocarcinoma only at the metastatic site indicated that neuroendocrine tumour cells acquired stemness and differentiated into adenocarcinoma through metastasis, or that the adenocarcinoma newly arose from the adjacent epithelium influenced by the neuroendocrine tumour. We propose a novel mechanism for the pathogenesis of mixed tumours in neuroendocrine tumours.
case-report	CRG446765	Signal Intensity of Superb Microvascular Imaging Correlates with the Severity of Acute Cholecystitis Signal Intensity of Superb Microvascular Imaging Correlates with the Severity of Acute Cholecystitis Evaluation of the severity of acute cholecystitis is critical for the management of this condition. Superb microvascular imaging (SMI) enables the assessment of slow blood flow of small vessels without any contrast medium. An 84-year-old man visited our hospital with right upper abdominal pain. Computed tomography and abdominal ultrasonography showed a slight thickening of the gallbladder. White blood cell count and C-reactive protein levels were elevated. He was diagnosed with acute cholecystitis and treated conservatively with antibiotics. Two days later, his condition worsened and percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder drainage (PTGBD) was performed. The patient recovered and was discharged, and his drainage was withdrawn 7 days later. On admission, color-coded SMI (cSMI) showed pulsatory signals on the slightly thickened gallbladder wall. On the day of PTGBD, the intensity of the signal on cSMI had increased. Once the patient was cured, no further signal was observed on the gallbladder wall with either cSMI or mSMI. In conclusion, the strong pulsatory signal correlated with the severity of acute cholecystitis observed with cSMI and mSMI. Illustrating the signal intensity is useful for the evaluation of the severity of acute cholecystitis.
case-report	CRG446766	Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis and Anasarca in a Female Patient with Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome Complicated by Respiratory and Kidney Failure Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis and Anasarca in a Female Patient with Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome Complicated by Respiratory and Kidney Failure Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) was first described in 1960. It may occur as a complication of gonadotropin hormone therapy during assisted pregnancy or for primary infertility. A 26-year-old female patient with polycystic ovarian syndrome and primary infertility was treated to conceive. She received intravenous gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) along with follicle-stimulating hormone in an outside private clinic. She presented to the emergency department with abdominal and chest pain, loose stool, vomiting, shortness of breath and decreasing urine output. She was found to have edema, ascites, effusion and acute kidney injury (AKI). Considering the symptoms preceding the drug history and anasarca, a diagnosis of severe OHSS was made. Ascites was further complicated by spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP), which had already been reported before. We speculate that low immunity due to decreased immunoglobulin in patients with OHSS makes them prone to SBP. In our case, septicemia secondary to SBP and fluid loss due to capillary leakage from OHSS resulted in AKI and respiratory failure. This critically ill patient was treated in a special care unit, and she fully recovered with supportive measures. Severe OHSS may present as anasarca including ascites which can develop SBP leading to sepsis and multiorgan failure.
case-report	CRG447288	Tacrolimus Therapy for Three Patients with Elderly-Onset Ulcerative Colitis: Report of Three Cases Tacrolimus Therapy for Three Patients with Elderly-Onset Ulcerative Colitis: Report of Three Cases In recent years, cases of elderly-onset ulcerative colitis (UC) have been increasing in number and are currently reported to account for 10–15% of all cases of UC. Although the treatment of UC is essentially similar between older and younger patients, evidence of the therapeutic efficacy of tacrolimus in elderly-onset UC patients is still limited. Herein, we report our attempt to induce remission using tacrolimus in three patients with elderly-onset UC. A 75-year-old Japanese woman, a 71-year-old Japanese man and a 76-year-old Japanese woman with severe elderly-onset UC of the pancolitis type were treated with tacrolimus. Although all three patients showed response to the drug, the eventual outcome was poor in the first patient, who developed toxic megacolon, underwent surgery, and suffered from recurrent infections and hemorrhage after the surgery. However, clinical remission was successfully achieved in the second and third patient. Tacrolimus shows some indication of effectiveness in the treatment of elderly-onset UC. However, in elderly-onset UC patients, it is necessary to keep in mind the higher risk of adverse effects of medical therapy and postoperative complications because of the high comorbidity rates. Moreover, in situations where surgery needs to be considered, it is important to ensure appropriate timing of the surgery.
case-report	CRG447292	Incomplete Annular Pancreas with Ectopic Opening of the Pancreatic and Bile Ducts into the Pyloric Ring: First Report of a Rare Anomaly Incomplete Annular Pancreas with Ectopic Opening of the Pancreatic and Bile Ducts into the Pyloric Ring: First Report of a Rare Anomaly The patient was a 56-year-old woman who had experienced epigastralgia and dorsal pain several times over the last 20 years. She was admitted for a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis, and severe intra- and extrahepatic bile duct dilatation with inner air density was noted. No papilla of Vater was present in the descending duodenum, and 2 small holes were present in the pyloric ring. Bile excretion from one of the small holes was observed under forward-viewing endoscope. It was considered that the pancreatic and bile ducts separately opened into the pyloric ring. Based on these findings, malformation of the pancreaticobiliary duct was diagnosed. She did not wish treatment, but the obstruction associated with duodenal stenosis was noted after 2 years. Pancreatoduodenectomy was performed as curative treatment for duodenal stenosis and retrograde biliary infection through the bile duct opening in the pyloric ring. The ventral pancreas encompassed almost the entire circumference of the pyloric ring, suggesting a subtype of annular pancreas. Generally, lesions are present in the descending part of the duodenum in an annular pancreas, and the pancreatic and bile ducts join in the papillary region. However, in this patient, (1) the pancreas encompassed the pyloric ring, (2) the pancreatic and bile ducts opened separately, and (3) the openings of the pancreatic and bile ducts were present in the pyloric ring. The pancreas and biliary tract develop through a complex process, which may cause various types of malformation of the pancreaticobiliary system, but no similar case report was found on a literature search. This case was very rare and could not be classified in any type of congenital anomaly of the pancreas. We would classify it as a subtype of annular pancreas with separate ectopic opening of the pancreatic and bile ducts into the pyloric ring.
case-report	CRG447423	Successful Management of Graft Reinfection of HCV Genotype 2 in Living Donor Liver Transplantation from a Hepatitis B Core Antibody-Positive Donor with Sofosbuvir and Ribavirin Successful Management of Graft Reinfection of HCV Genotype 2 in Living Donor Liver Transplantation from a Hepatitis B Core Antibody-Positive Donor with Sofosbuvir and Ribavirin Direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) are relatively safe and highly effective for the eradication of hepatitis C virus (HCV) in liver transplant recipients. In this case study, we present a female with a graft reinfected with HCV genotype 2 who was treated with a combination of sofosbuvir and ribavirin after living donor liver transplantation (LDLT). Because the graft was from a hepatitis B core antibody-positive donor, passive immunization with hyperimmune hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) and entecavir were also provided to prevent hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation. It became clear that the combination of sofosbuvir and ribavirin promptly led to a sustained virologic response and that this combination was safe to treat graft reinfection with HCV genotype 2 after LDLT. Adverse events caused by DAAs were not observed, except for slight anemia. HBIG and entecavir were useful in the prevention of HBV reactivation. In conclusion, the present case indicated that DAA treatment for graft reinfection with HCV is safe and effective in LDLT from hepatitis B core antibody-positive donors.
case-report	CRG447487	"Giant Esophageal Lipoma as an Uncommon Cause of Diverticula Giant Esophageal Lipoma as an Uncommon Cause of Diverticula Esophageal lipoma is an uncommon benign tumor of the esophagus and accounts for only 0.4% of all benign neoplasms of the gastrointestinal system. The majority of these are located in the cervical part; only very few are located in the lower third of the esophagus. We discuss the case of a 37-year-old female who presented with dysphagia and an esophageal lipoma located in the lower third of the esophagus. The patient underwent right mini-thoracotomy and enucleation of lipoma. Histopathologic examination revealed adipose tissue with a collection of matured adipose tissue. We present the case because of the atypical localization of an esophageal lipoma and development of a diverticulum, which was caused by the lipoma and required an additional surgical procedure."
case-report	CRG448065	An Unusual Cause of Rectal Stenosis An Unusual Cause of Rectal Stenosis Solitary rectal ulcer syndrome (SRUS) is a benign disease that is often misdiagnosed. It is characterized by a combination of symptoms, endoscopic findings and histology. Patients present with constipation, rectal bleeding, mucous discharge, pain and a sensation of incomplete defecation. There are many different manifestations of this disease, with or without rectal prolapse. We report an unusual presentation of SRUS as a circular stenosis in a middle-aged male.
case-report	CRG448066	Pseudocirrhosis: A Case Series and Literature Review Pseudocirrhosis: A Case Series and Literature Review Pseudocirrhosis describes morphological changes of the liver that closely mimic cirrhosis, without the typical histopathological changes seen in cirrhosis. It most commonly occurs in patients with metastatic breast cancer, although it has been reported in other malignancies as well. Like in cirrhosis, portal hypertension is often seen in patients with pseudocirrhosis. Pseudocirrhosis is a rare but important complication of metastatic cancer. In this case series and literature review, we describe 6 patients with hormone-receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer. We report the significant morbidity associated with pseudocirrhosis in the course of treatment in patients with metastatic breast cancer.
case-report	CRG448068	Acute Cholecystitis with Significantly Elevated Levels of Serum Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 Acute Cholecystitis with Significantly Elevated Levels of Serum Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 Serum carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9), a marker of malignant tumors, is generally slightly elevated in benign conditions. We report a case of acute cholecystitis with a significantly elevated level of serum CA 19-9 based on positron emission tomography (PET)-computed tomography (CT) findings. A 65-year-old woman presented with abdominal pain and fever. A CT image revealed an enlarged gallbladder without tumor shadows. The C-reactive protein (CRP) level was elevated to 7.66 mg/dl. Moreover, the serum CA 19-9 level was significantly elevated to 19,392 U/ml. We started antibiotic treatment, because we suspected acute cholecystitis, but still, we could not ignore the possible presence of malignant tumors. After 11 days of antibiotic treatment, serum CRP and CA 19-9 levels decreased to 0.11 mg/dl and 1,049 U/ml, respectively. There was an accumulation of fluorine 18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose (maximum standardized uptake value, 9.3) without tumor shadows in the liver, near the gallbladder, on the PET-CT examination. We considered the possibility that the inflammation had spread from the gallbladder to the liver, made a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis, and performed a cholecystectomy 33 days after treatment initiation. The serum CA 19-9 level decreased to 45 U/ml after the surgery. One year after the surgery, the patient was alive, and the serum CA 19-9 level was 34 U/ml. Acute cholecystitis with a significantly high elevation of the serum CA 19-9 level is rare. In such cases, it is important to confirm the change in the serum CA 19-9 level over time after antibiotic treatment and perform imaging studies to distinguish between inflammation and malignancy.
case-report	CRG448070	Verrucous Squamous Cell Cancer in the Esophagus: An Obscure Diagnosis Verrucous Squamous Cell Cancer in the Esophagus: An Obscure Diagnosis Verrucous carcinoma is a rare, slow-growing type of squamous cell cancer. Fewer than 50 patients with verrucous carcinoma in the esophagus have been described worldwide. In 2014, two male patients were diagnosed with verrucous carcinoma in the distal part of the esophagus. The endoscopic examinations showed a similar wart-like, white, irregular mucosa in both cases. The diagnosis was difficult to make since all biopsies taken from the affected area showed no malignancy. This cancer type has a relatively good prognosis when the diagnosis is finally obtained. Both our patients presented with dysphagia, weight loss, and an endoscopically malignant tumor, but surgery was not performed until after 9 and 10 months, respectively, and then in order to get a diagnosis. At the last follow-up, both patients were without any recurrence of the disease.
case-report	CRG448072	Delayed Viral Clearance after 6-Week Treatment with Peginterferon Plus Ribavirin in a Patient with Chronic Hepatitis C Virus Genotype 1b Delayed Viral Clearance after 6-Week Treatment with Peginterferon Plus Ribavirin in a Patient with Chronic Hepatitis C Virus Genotype 1b Following interferon-based therapy for chronic hepatitis C, the negativity of hepatitis C virus RNA is essential to achieve viral clearance at the end of treatment. We report a case of clearance of chronic hepatitis C virus infection following early discontinuation (at 6 weeks) of peginterferon plus ribavirin therapy, without negativity for hepatitis C virus RNA during the treatment period. The patient was a 76-year-old Japanese male infected with hepatitis C virus genotype 1b and TT of IL28B rs8099917. Hepatitis C virus RNA remained positive at persistently low levels for more than 2 months after the cessation of therapy and became negative at 7 months after the discontinuation of therapy. Spontaneous clearance of hepatitis C virus RNA can occur following antiviral failure in patients with persistently low viral loads, and virological follow-up is therefore necessary in chronic hepatitis C virus infection, even after antiviral failure.
case-report	CRG448133	"Therapeutic Depletion of Iron Stores Is Not Associated with a Reduced Hemoglobin Mass in a Hemochromatosis Patient Therapeutic Depletion of Iron Stores Is Not Associated with a Reduced Hemoglobin Mass in a Hemochromatosis Patient Introduction: Hereditary hemochromatosis features a dysregulated iron absorption leading to iron overload and organ damage. The regulation of total hemoglobin mass during depletion of iron deposits by therapeutic phlebotomy has not been studied. Case Presentation: The initial ferritin level of the 52-year-old male subject was 1,276 μg/l. Despite successful depletion of iron stores (ferritin&lt;Sub&gt;min&lt;/Sub&gt;: 53 μg/l) through phlebotomies, total hemoglobin mass stabilized at the pretherapy level. However, regeneration of total hemoglobin mass was accelerated (up to 10.8 g/day). Conclusion: In this hemochromatosis patient, the total hemoglobin mass was not altered in the long term, but regeneration was accelerated, possibly due to elevated body iron content."
case-report	CRG448878	Case of Six-Year Disease-Free Survival with Undifferentiated Carcinoma of the Pancreas Case of Six-Year Disease-Free Survival with Undifferentiated Carcinoma of the Pancreas Undifferentiated carcinoma of the pancreas (UDC) is rare and has a dismal prognosis. Here, we report a case of 6-year disease-free survival with a mixed type of UDC and UDC with osteoclast-like giant cells, with a high mitotic index as well as perineural, lymphatic, vessel, and diaphragmatic invasion. The patient underwent radical distal pancreatectomy and was subsequently treated with adjuvant chemotherapy using gemcitabine plus S-1 followed by maintenance chemotherapy with oral tegafur-uracil. The patient has been doing well with no evidence of recurrence for more than 6 years after surgery.
case-report	CRG455185	Acinar Cell Cystadenocarcinoma of the Pancreas Acinar Cell Cystadenocarcinoma of the Pancreas Acinar cell cystadenocarcinoma is a rare malignant epithelial neoplasm of the pancreas with a diffusely cystic, gross architecture in which the cysts are lined with neoplastic epithelial cells that demonstrate evidence of pancreatic exocrine enzyme production. This is the 10th case that has been reported in the literature. A 77-year-old male complaining of left hypochondrial pain was referred to our hospital for treatment of a pancreatic tumor. A huge, honeycomb-structured tumor was detected in the pancreatic tail. Distal pancreatectomy with total resection of the residual stomach and partial resection of the transverse colon were performed. Microscopically, there were variably sized cystic lesions in the tumor. Immunohistochemical examinations revealed that tumor cells were positive for alpha 1-antichymotrypsin and alpha 1-trypsin, showing that tumor cells had features of pancreatic acinar cells. Thus, the tumor was diagnosed as acinar cell cystadenocarcinoma. Herein, we report a rare case with acinar cell cystadenocarcinoma, which is the 10th case reported in the literature based on a PubMed search. We managed to resect the tumor completely by distal pancreatectomy with total resection of the residual stomach and partial resection of the transverse colon. The patient is still alive 26 months after surgery without any recurrence after 1 year of adjuvant chemotherapy with S-1.
case-report	CRG479221	Intraparenchymal Hemorrhage due to Brain Metastasis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma Intraparenchymal Hemorrhage due to Brain Metastasis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma Although extrahepatic metastases from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are present in only 5–15% of cases, they are certainly factors associated with poor prognosis. The main sites include lung, lymph nodes, bones, and adrenal glands, in descending order. Metastasis in the central nervous system is extremely rare, and the incidences vary from 0.6 to 1.7%. We report a case of a 54-year-old man previously diagnosed with alcohol-induced cirrhosis of the liver and HCC. The patient was admitted presenting progressive left hemiparesis and headache which started 2 days earlier, with no history of cranioencephalic trauma. After admission, cranial computed tomography revealed an intraparenchymal hemorrhage area with surrounding edema in the right frontal lobe. An angioresonance requested showed a large extra-axial mass lesion located in the right frontal region with well-defined contours and predominantly hypointense signal on T2 sequence. At first, the radiological findings suggested meningioma as the first diagnostic hypothesis. However, the patient underwent surgery. The tumor was completely removed, and the morphological and immunohistochemical findings were consistent with metastatic hepatocarcinoma associated with meningioma. In postoperative care, the patient did not recover from the left hemiparesis and manifested Broca’s aphasia. He had a survival time of 24 weeks, presenting acute liver failure as his cause of death. There is a lack of evidence supporting a specific management of patients with brain metastasis from HCC. Furthermore, there are no studies that evaluate different modalities of therapeutics in brain metastasis of HCC due to the rarity of this condition. Therefore, management must be individualized depending on probable prognostic factors in these patients.
case-report	CRG479223	Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9-Positive Gastric Adenocarcinoma: Autopsy Findings and Review of the Literature Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9-Positive Gastric Adenocarcinoma: Autopsy Findings and Review of the Literature Carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) is a well-known tumor marker for pancreatobiliary cancer, and several studies have shown that an elevated serum CA19-9 level is associated with more aggressive biological behavior in gastric cancer (GC). However, the clinicopathological characteristics of CA19-9-positive GC remain unclear. We herein report an autopsy case of CA19-9-positive GC in an 84-year-old man who was admitted to our hospital because of paralysis and anemia. Autopsy revealed an ulcerative-invasive tumor measuring 72 × 60 mm in the anterior wall of the gastric body. The tumor had invaded beyond the muscularis propria, and metastasized to the lung, liver, and regional lymph nodes. Histologically, the tumor cell had oval nuclei with abundant clear cytoplasm, and tubular and/or papillary features with prominent lymphovascular permeation and perineural invasion, mimicking pancreatobiliary carcinoma. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells showed diffuse immunopositivity for CA19-9 and carcinoembryonic antigen. According to a review of cases reported in the literature, CA19-9-positive GCs show clinicopathological characteristics such as antral location, ulcerative-infiltrating gross feature, differentiated histology, prominent lymphatic and venous invasion, higher proportion of metastasis, and higher clinical stage. These results suggest that CA19-9-positive GC is pathologically a distinctive type of tumor with aggressive biological behavior.
case-report	CRG479311	Unusual Clinical Presentation of Hemobilia with Recurrent Vasovagal Episodes Unusual Clinical Presentation of Hemobilia with Recurrent Vasovagal Episodes Hemobilia is caused by the abnormal connection between a blood vessel and the bile duct, which is usually iatrogenic and caused by hepatobiliary procedures. The classic triad of hemobilia includes biliary colic, obstructive jaundice, and gastrointestinal bleeding. We present the case of an 80-year-old man who had laparoscopic cholecystectomy complicated by hemobilia. He had an unusual presentation of hemobilia in the form of transient vasovagal episodes in addition to abdominal pain and hematochezia.
case-report	CRG479312	A Case of Basaloid Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Polypoid Type in the Esophagus A Case of Basaloid Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Polypoid Type in the Esophagus Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus is very rare. Further, polypoid type of esophageal cancer is also rare. We have recently treated a case of basaloid squamous cell carcinoma which presented as a 1.3-cm esophageal polyp. A 48-year-old woman was referred to our hospital because of a polypoid mass at 36 cm distance from the upper incisor on endoscopic examination, and the result of the biopsy was basaloid squamous cell carcinoma. The patient underwent Ivor Lewis operation with lymph node dissection. Two basaloid squamous cell carcinomas, of 1.3 and 0.4 cm, were diagnosed in the final pathologic examination. Regular periodic follow-up showed no evidence of recurrence or metastasis in the 5-month postoperative period.
case-report	CRG479313	Laparoscopic Resection of a Jejunal Mesenteric Pseudocyst Laparoscopic Resection of a Jejunal Mesenteric Pseudocyst An unusual case of a jejunal mesenteric pseudocyst treated by laparoscopic resection is reported. A 44-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital with intermittent upper abdominal pain and diarrhea. Physical examination revealed slight periumbilical tenderness, and no masses were palpable. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography showed a 4-cm-sized nonenhancing high-density mass with a heterogeneous pattern on a proximal small bowel loop. Based on these findings, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor accompanied by hemorrhagic and cystic change, a mesenteric hematoma, or a desmoid tumor was diagnosed. Laparoscopy was performed to obtain an accurate diagnosis. Exploration of the abdominal cavity identified a 4-cm mass originating from the mesentery of the jejunum. Segmental resection of the jejunum and its mesentery, including the mass, was performed. Macroscopically, the mass appeared to be a cystic mass of the jejunal mesentery. The mass within the cyst lumen consisted of white clayish material with no specific pathology. The final pathological diagnosis was a mesenteric pseudocyst. The patient had an uneventful postoperative course.
case-report	CRG479550	Ascending Cholangitis due to Heavy Lifting Ascending Cholangitis due to Heavy Lifting Gallstone disease is the most common risk factor for cholangitis. In an anatomically normal bile duct system, cholangitis does not occur without the presence of stones. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography with papillotomy and stone extraction is a well-established curative therapy for gallstones in the common bile duct. More important, papillotomy prevents recurrent episodes. The present case report describes a 73-year-old male with recurring cholangitis in a clear bile duct system after previous papillotomy. An etiology of duodenal reflux into the common bile duct due to heavy lifting is proposed.
case-report	CRG480071	A Patient with Nafcillin-Associated Drug-Induced Liver Failure A Patient with Nafcillin-Associated Drug-Induced Liver Failure Nafcillin-induced acute liver injury is a rare and potentially fatal complication that has been known since the 1960s but inadequately studied. At this time, the only proven treatment is early discontinuation of the drug. Because of the high prevalence of nafcillin class antibiotic use in the United States, it is important for clinicians to have a high clinical suspicion for this diagnosis. We present a case of liver failure attributable to nafcillin use in a 68-year-old male with a history methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus and L3/L4 osteomyelitis. After starting long-term antibiotic therapy, he presented with painless jaundice which necessitated discontinuation of the drug. At the time of presentation, the patient’s lab work exhibited a bilirubin/direct bilirubin of 9.4/8.2 mg/dL, alkaline phosphatase of 311 IU/L, and aspartate transaminase/alanine transaminase of 109/127 IU/L. The patient was switched to i.v. vancomycin given the concern for drug-induced liver injury. Imaging did not show obstruction of the hepatobiliary or pancreaticobiliary trees. Serology was unremarkable for viral etiology, autoimmune processes, Wilson disease, and hemochromatosis. A liver biopsy showed findings consistent with drug-induced liver injury. The patient’s liver function tests peaked at day 7 of admission and trended towards normal levels with cessation of nafcillin therapy. The patient was discharged with a diagnosis of nafcillin-induced acute liver injury. Our case highlights the importance of early recognition of the diagnosis and careful monitoring of liver function when nafcillin is employed in the clinical setting.
case-report	CRG480072	A Rare Thermophilic Bug in Complicated Diverticular Abscess A Rare Thermophilic Bug in Complicated Diverticular Abscess Actinomycosis is a form of painful abscess in the gastrointestinal tract or in deep tissue caused by actinomyces species. They are one of the commensal bacteria in the oral cavity and gastrointestinal tract of humans but can opportunistically cause infection in immunosuppressive hosts through invasion of breached mucosa or necrotic tissue while mimicking malignancy, gastrointestinal tuberculosis, and inflammatory bowel disease. Actinomyces israelii is, by far, the major and most common human pathogen throughout literatures. By virtue of rarity and diagnostic confusion with masquerading malignancies, only 10% of the cases have been diagnosed preoperatively, so as to be able to verge patients from undergoing unnecessary surgical intervention. Herein, we present a rare case of complicated diverticular abscess manifested by Actinomyces meyeri after postoperative tissue diagnosis.
case-report	CRG480374	Preoperative Diagnosis and Surgical Approach of Appendiceal Mucinous Cystadenoma: Usefulness of Volcano Sign Preoperative Diagnosis and Surgical Approach of Appendiceal Mucinous Cystadenoma: Usefulness of Volcano Sign We report a case of appendiceal mucinous cystadenoma that was successfully diagnosed preoperatively and treated by laparoscopic resection. We could find volcano sign on colonoscopy and cystic lesion without any nodules at the appendix on computed tomography (CT). Without any malignant factors in preoperative examinations, we performed laparoscopic appendectomy including the cecal wall. We could avoid performing excessive operation for cystadenoma with accurate preoperative diagnosis and intraoperative finding and pathological diagnosis during surgery. Appendiceal mucocele is a rare disease that is divided into 3 pathological types: hyperplasia, cystadenoma, and cystadenocarcinoma. The surgical approaches for it remain controversial and oversurgery is sometimes done for benign tumor, because preoperative diagnosis is difficult and rupturing an appendiceal tumor results in dissemination. Based on our study, volcano sign on colonoscopy and CT findings were important for the preoperative diagnosis of appendiceal mucocele. Furthermore, we think that laparoscopic resection will become a surgical option for the treatment of appendiceal mucocele.
case-report	CRG480375	"Hepatectomy for Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma with Right-Sided Ligamentum Teres Using a Hepatectomy Simulation System Hepatectomy for Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma with Right-Sided Ligamentum Teres Using a Hepatectomy Simulation System Right-sided ligamentum teres (RSLT) is a rare congenital anomaly often accompanied by variation of the hepatic vasculature. We herein report a surgical case of a hilar cholangiocarcinoma with RSLT in whom preoperative hepatectomy simulation proved useful for understanding the anatomical structure of the liver. A 78-year-old male with obstructive jaundice was referred to our department for further examination. The patient was suspected of having a hilar cholangiocarcinoma originating from the left hepatic bile duct by contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT), and CT also showed right umbilical portion (RUP). Three-dimensional images of the hepatic vasculature and biliary system reconstructed using a hepatectomy simulation system suggested that all portal branches ramified from RUP were right paramedian branches, and three leftward portal branches from these ran parallel to the peripheral bile ducts confluent with the left hepatic bile duct, where the tumor was present. Hepatic resection of part of the ventral area of the right paramedian sector and left hemiliver was performed along the demarcation line drawn after clamping the portal branches; the ratio of estimated liver resection volume was 28.9%. After the operation, bile leakage occurred. However, the leakage was treated with percutaneous drainage alone, and the patient was discharged 77 days after the operation. The patient is doing well without any signs of recurrence 21 months after the operation. The vascular and biliary anatomy in patients with RSLT is complicated and should be evaluated in detail preoperatively using a hepatectomy simulation system."
case-report	CRG481160	Renoportal Anastomosis in Left Lateral Lobe Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Pediatric Case Renoportal Anastomosis in Left Lateral Lobe Living Donor Liver Transplantation: A Pediatric Case In adult liver transplantation, renoportal anastomosis (RPA) has been introduced as a useful technique for patients with grade 4 portal vein thrombosis and a splenorenal shunt. Here, we report a pediatric case in which RPA allowed a left lateral lobe living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) despite portal vein thrombosis and a large splenorenal shunt. At 36 days old, the patient underwent a Kasai operation for biliary atresia. At 17 months old, she underwent LDLT because of repetitive cholangitis. Pretransplant examinations revealed a large splenorenal shunt and portal vein thrombosis. Simple end-to-end portal reconstruction and clamping of the collateral route after removing the thrombosis were unsuccessful. Thus, RPA was performed using a donor superficial femoral vein as an interpositional graft. The portal vein pressure was 20 mm Hg after arterial reperfusion. Ligation of the splenic artery reduced the portal vein pressure. Although she developed severe acute cellular rejection and chylous ascites, there were no signs of portal vein complications. She was discharged 73 days after transplantation without any signs of renal dysfunction. The patient’s condition was good at her last follow-up, 22 months after transplantation. To our knowledge, this is the youngest case of RPA in pediatric left lateral lobe LDLT. Additionally, this is the first case of RPA with splenic artery ligation and using the donor’s superficial femoral vein as the venous graft for RPA. Although long-term follow-up is necessary, RPA could be a salvage option in LDLT in infants if other methods are unsuccessful.
case-report	CRG481162	A Tale of Two Lymphomas A Tale of Two Lymphomas We present a patient with coeliac disease who developed refractory coeliac disease II, which was complicated by the development of metachronous lymphomas.
case-report	CRG486952	Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitor-Induced Gastrointestinal Angioedema: The First Danish Case Report Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitor-Induced Gastrointestinal Angioedema: The First Danish Case Report Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) are widely used to treat hypertension and congestive heart failure. A rare side effect of ACEI therapy is angioedema, which in very rare cases may present as gastrointestinal angioedema (GA). A 45-year-old female presented with suddenly occurring diffuse abdominal pain. Imaging studies revealed small bowel wall edema. The patient had been on ACEI therapy for the last 6 months. The therapy was withdrawn, and the patient recovered quickly. There is no specific diagnostic test to confirm ACEI-induced GA, but symptoms usually regress completely after therapy discontinuation. An early diagnosis of ACEI-induced GA is important to avoid invasive diagnostic investigations and even laparotomy.
case-report	CRG492204	Secondary Adrenal Insufficiency after Treatment with Budesonide for Autoimmune Hepatitis Secondary Adrenal Insufficiency after Treatment with Budesonide for Autoimmune Hepatitis Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is a rare cause of chronic liver disease. The backbone of treatment is immunosuppressive medication, typically prednisolone as induction therapy and azathioprine as a maintenance therapy. Side effects of the long-term use of systemic corticosteroids are well known and have led to the use of alternative induction regimens. An attractive alternative is budesonide, a nonhalogenated glucocorticosteroid characterized by a high first-pass effect in the liver (90%), resulting in a high topical anti-inflammatory activity and a low systemic activity. It should be stressed that budesonide is contraindicated in patients with established cirrhosis with portal hypertension and portocaval shunting. In this case report, we present the first case of adrenal insufficiency following treatment with budesonide for AIH.
case-report	CRG492206	A Highly Advanced Gastric Cancer Maintaining a Clinical Complete Response after Chemoradiotherapy Comprising S-1 and Cisplatin A Highly Advanced Gastric Cancer Maintaining a Clinical Complete Response after Chemoradiotherapy Comprising S-1 and Cisplatin We report a patient with highly advanced gastric carcinoma who was treated successfully with chemoradiotherapy (CRT) comprising S-1 and cisplatin. The patient was a 71-year-old male who was diagnosed with advanced gastric carcinoma by esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) by medical examination. EGD demonstrated type 3 advanced gastric carcinoma in the posterior wall of the upper gastric body. An abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan showed that the gastric wall was thickened due to gastric primary tumor, and large lymph nodes (LNs) including the lesser curvature LN, anterosuperior LN along the common hepatic artery and some para-aortic LNs were detected. The patient was diagnosed with stage IV advanced gastric carcinoma according to the Japanese classification of gastric carcinoma (cT4a, cN3, cM1 [para-aortic LN], cStage IV). Preoperative CRT was carried out in an attempt to downstage the disease. Remarkable reduction of the primary tumor and metastatic LNs was observed after initial CRT, and radiological examination determined that a partial response had been achieved. Adverse effects included grade 2 anorexia and grade 3 ALP elevation (919 U/ml). No grade 4 or more severe adverse event was observed. After CRT, although we recommended curative surgery, the patient refused surgical treatment and opted for conservative treatment. Thus, we continued S-1 oral administration for 1 year. Five months after beginning CRT, upper endoscopy showed that the tumor had maintained regression and scar formation, in which no cancer cells were detected by endoscopic biopsy. The patient is doing well and has maintained a clinical complete response for more than 42 months without curative surgery. CRT could be considered as an option for treatment of patients with locally advanced gastric carcinoma diagnosed as unresectable, or for those who refuse surgical treatment.
case-report	CRG492460	Acute Abdomen with Ileus: A Heralding Presentation of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome Acute Abdomen with Ileus: A Heralding Presentation of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome The pathophysiology of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) with use of psychotropic drugs is still unclear. Although a rare event with an incidence of 0.02–3.2%, when not promptly recognized and managed, it carries a high mortality (10–20%) and morbidity rate. Presentation can be either typical, with muscle rigidity and hyperpyrexia, or atypical, the latter posing diagnostic and early management challenges in clinical practice. Our patient presented with delayed fever and ileus, making early diagnosis difficult. We propose that NMS be considered an alternate diagnosis in patients using psychotropic medications and manifest ileus and delayed fever, especially after other differentials have been excluded.
case-report	CRG492461	Alveolar Echinococcosis Mimicking a Hepatic Neoplasm with Lymph Node Metastasis: A Case Report Alveolar Echinococcosis Mimicking a Hepatic Neoplasm with Lymph Node Metastasis: A Case Report A 37-year-old man had an asymptomatic 17-mm mass in the liver by health check with ultrasonography. Five years later, he was referred to our hospital because the mass was slightly enlarged with a peripancreatic lymph node. We performed endoscopic ultrasonography fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) to evaluate a lymph node, but it showed amorphous eosinophilic material and eosinophilic infiltrate in necrotic tissue of toothpaste-like white specimen. However, we diagnosed as potentially malignant liver mass with lymph node metastasis because of 2-deoxy-2-(fluorine-18) fluorodeoxyglucose uptake. We then performed hepatectomy and enucleation of the pancreas. DNA polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed Echinococcus multilocularis infection. Retrospectively, we could find a part of Echinococcus in the specimens of EUS-FNA.
case-report	CRG492810	Small-Bowel Obstruction Secondary to Ileal Trichobezoar in a Patient with Rapunzel Syndrome Small-Bowel Obstruction Secondary to Ileal Trichobezoar in a Patient with Rapunzel Syndrome Bezoars are conglomerations of undigested foreign material retained in the gastrointestinal tract. Trichobezoar is a compact conglomeration of swallowed hair and constitutes less than 6% of all bezoars. Their most frequent location is in the stomach but they may extend through the pylorus into the small bowel. This condition is known as Rapunzel syndrome. Many patients may remain asymptomatic or present a mild form of the disease characterized by abdominal pain, early satiety, nausea, and vomiting. Complications may manifest as gastric outlet obstruction or bleeding, and intestinal obstruction. A 15-year-old female patient presented with clinical findings of intestinal obstruction. The patient suffered from depressive and anxiety disorders and trichotillomania, although trichophagy could not be assured. Alopecia circumscripta and irregular hair length on the scalp were identified. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed two images highly suggestive of trichobezoars, one in the stomach and the second one causing obstruction at the ileocecal valve. At laparotomy, both a mobile gastric trichobezoar with a tail extending to the duodenum and a trichobezoar causing obstruction at the ileocecal valve were removed. The postoperative course was uneventful. The passage of a detached trichobezoar fragment in a patient with Rapunzel syndrome may cause intestinal obstruction. CT is the preferred image modality for the evaluation of suspected trichobezoars in order to characterize their size and locations, the presence and level of obstruction, and complications such as ischemia or perforation. A case of small-bowel obstruction secondary to ileal trichobezoar in a patient with Rapunzel syndrome is herein reported.
case-report	CRG492811	Overstaged Rectal Cancer by MRI due to Fibrosis Induced by Tattoo Marker Overstaged Rectal Cancer by MRI due to Fibrosis Induced by Tattoo Marker Endoscopic colorectal tattooing with carbon-based dyes is commonly employed in order to assist with later localization of the lesion. Although carbon is thought to be nontoxic, there usually is some inflammatory reaction with fibrosis and granuloma formation after tissue injection. The aim of this report is to alert to a possible underestimated, late consequence of colorectal carbon-based marker tattooing, namely pronounced fibrosis at the site of the injection that could lead to a blurring and misinterpretation of changes evaluated by radiological techniques. We describe a case of cT stage overestimation due to fibrosis of the rectal wall and perirectal fat, induced by carbon-based dye injection in a 66-year-old patient. In our case it was an overestimation of MR evaluation in the case of early invasive carcinoma. Although there have been some studies on tissue effect of carbon-based dyes, the possible scenario consequence of cancer stage overestimation due to fibrosis has not yet been described. Such a mistake could lead to inappropriate overtreatment. Clinicians must be aware of the possible consequences of dye injection and resultant overestimation of T stage of colorectal cancer. More histological studies concerning histological changes after carbon-based marker tattooing are needed to establish the extent of its significance.
case-report	CRG494555	Long-Term Cholic Acid Treatment in a Patient with Zellweger Spectrum Disorder Long-Term Cholic Acid Treatment in a Patient with Zellweger Spectrum Disorder Zellweger spectrum disorders (ZSDs) are a subgroup of peroxisomal biogenesis disorders with a generalized defect in peroxisome function. Liver disease in ZSDs has been associated with the lack of peroxisomal β-oxidation of C27-bile acid intermediates to form primary C24-bile acids, which prevents normal physiologic feedback and leads to accumulation of hepatotoxic bile acid intermediates. Primary bile acid therapy, oral cholic acid (CA), as adjunctive treatment for ZSDs, restores physiologic feedback inhibition on bile acid synthesis and inhibits formation of hepatotoxic bile acid intermediates. Our patient is a Caucasian male diagnosed with moderately severe ZSD at age 5 months, and he received long-term CA therapy from age 16 months through 19 years old. CA treatment was well tolerated, with no reports of adverse events. His liver biopsy prior to CA therapy showed cholestasis, periportal inflammation, and bridging fibrosis. Following 5 months of CA therapy, his liver biopsy showed improvement in inflammation and no change in fibrosis. Serum liver enzymes during CA therapy improved compared to pre-therapy levels but frequently were above the upper limit of normal. At age 19 years, following several years with clinical cirrhosis with severe portal hypertension, he presented with worsening jaundice, and he was diagnosed with hepatocellular cancer (HCC). Early-onset advanced liver disease associated with ZSD and natural disease progression that is not completely suppressed with CA treatment likely caused HCC in our patient. Greater awareness is needed of the possibility of development of HCC in patients with moderately severe ZSD who survive past childhood.
case-report	CRG494751	Whole Genome Sequencing Analysis of a Stage IV Colon Cancer Patient with a 10-Year Disease-Free Survival following Systemic Chemotherapy/Bevacizumab Whole Genome Sequencing Analysis of a Stage IV Colon Cancer Patient with a 10-Year Disease-Free Survival following Systemic Chemotherapy/Bevacizumab It is rare that stage IV colon cancer is cured with chemotherapy. Here we report the long-term survival of a patient who presented with highly advanced disease characterized by a papillary architecture as well as porta hepatis lymph nodes but responded extremely well to FOLFIRI/bevacizumab. His original tumor underwent comprehensive genomic testing that included whole genome DNA sequencing, targeted sequencing, and RNA sequencing. These genetic results suggest the patient’s tumor harbored mutations in APC, KRAS, and TP53 as well as in PIK3CB. Moreover, the RNA-seq data suggested that the tumor belonged to the consensus molecular subtype 4, the “inflamed, immune phenotype,” with increased angiogenesis. Deep sequencing of highly responsive cancers may yield molecular insights into mechanisms underpinning a remarkable response.
case-report	CRG495246	Collision Tumor of Adenocarcinoma and Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor in the Small Bowel Collision Tumor of Adenocarcinoma and Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor in the Small Bowel We report a very rare case of collision tumor composed of primary adenocarcinoma of the jejunum and gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). The patient was a 63-year-old man who visited our hospital for epigastralgia and vomiting. Abdominal computed tomography revealed a mass in the upper jejunum, with gastric and duodenal dilatation. Endoscopy of the small bowel showed a circumferential tumor in the upper jejunum, which was diagnosed as primary adenocarcinoma by tissue biopsy. Thereafter, partial resection of the small bowel from the third part of the duodenum over the upper jejunum was performed. A tumor colliding with the primary adenocarcinoma was identified on the serosal side of the jejunum in the excised specimen and was histologically diagnosed as GIST. The annual incidence of primary adenocarcinoma of the small bowel (i.e., jejunum and ileum excluding the duodenum) has been reported to be 7 in 1 million people, and only 6 cases of collision tumor of the small bowel (i.e., duodenum: 5, ileum: 1) have been reported thus far. Although esophageal, gastric, and large intestinal collision tumors composed of primary cancer and GIST have been reported, to our knowledge, the present patient is the first case of the small bowel. The cause of or correlation between 2 tumors forming a collision tumor remains unclear. In the present patient, there was no pathological finding of infiltration between the 2 tumors. Although the collision of the 2 tumors was unclear, the findings indicate their independent development in closely located regions consistent with collision tumors.
systematic-review	CRM347048	"Intentional Weight Loss and Dose Reductions of Antihypertensive Medications: A Retrospective Cohort Study Intentional Weight Loss and Dose Reductions of Antihypertensive Medications: A Retrospective Cohort Study Background: Though it is well known that weight loss tends to decrease blood pressure, the quantitative association between the magnitude of weight loss and the effect on the need for antihypertensive medications is not well studied. We analyzed this association among overweight and obese attendees at two outpatient weight management centers. Methods: Case records of patients with a body mass index &gt;25 at baseline were analyzed. The weight loss intervention consisted of a calorie-restricted diet (~1,000 kcal/day deficit), a behavior modification plan, and a plan for increasing physical activity. Results: The study cohort consisted of 100 participants, and the mean follow-up period was 15 ± 3.5 months. Significant weight loss (12.2 ± 3.4 kg) and systolic/diastolic blood pressure reductions (9.1/6.3 mm Hg) were observed by study exit. For 5, 10, and 15% weight loss, respectively, 3, 39, and 39% of the patients achieved at least 1 discontinuation of any antihypertensive medication, and 8, 42, and 21 dose reductions were achieved. Dose reductions or discontinuations occurred in all classes of antihypertensive medications with similar magnitudes of weight loss. Conclusions: Intentional weight loss can potentially result in dose reductions/discontinuations of antihypertensive medications. Our results should be validated with data from larger randomized controlled studies and may help to inform the conduct of a systematic review of prior randomized controlled trials that contain data on medication changes accompanying weight loss."
research-article	CRM349938	"Urinary Protein Excretion Is Associated with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy in Treatment-Naïve Hypertensive Patients in an African Hospital Setting Urinary Protein Excretion Is Associated with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy in Treatment-Naïve Hypertensive Patients in an African Hospital Setting Background: Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is an independent predictor of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events in hypertensive patients. Current guidelines for the management of hypertension are based on cardiovascular risk stratification. This study evaluated the possibility that an inexpensive, simple random, single-void urinary protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR) would be associated to left ventricular (LV) mass in a black African setting, and therefore direct appropriate management of these patients. Methods: We measured echocardiographic LV mass and a random spot UPCR in 34 untreated newly diagnosed hypertensive patients attending the cardiology consultation unit at the Yaoundé General Hospital. LV mass was indexed to height (in m2.7) to obtain the LV mass index (LVMI). A regression model was used to verify the independent association between UPCR and LVMI. Results: The mean age of our patients was 52.65 years, and the mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 152.44 and 92.84 mm Hg, respectively. The prevalence of LVH was 41.2%. UPCR was higher in patients with LVH compared to those without (p = 0.043). There was a significant correlation between UPCR and LVMI (r = 0.581, p &lt; 0.001). In the multiple linear regression model, UPCR was associated with LVMI independent of systolic blood pressure (p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: Random spot UPCR is associated with an increased LV mass and may be very useful in screening and guiding appropriate management of high-risk untreated hypertensive patients."
systematic-review	CRM380915	"Peritoneal Dialysis in Patients with Refractory Congestive Heart Failure: A Systematic Review Peritoneal Dialysis in Patients with Refractory Congestive Heart Failure: A Systematic Review Background: Refractory congestive heart failure (RCHF) is associated with a high mortality rate and is a major contributor to hospital admissions. Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is an option to control volume overload and perhaps improve outcomes in this challenging patient population. The aim of this systematic review is to describe the relative risk-benefit ratio based on data reported regarding the use of PD in RCHF. This study was conducted in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses statement. An electronic search of PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library was performed to identify relevant studies published from January 1951 to February 2014. Eligible studies selected were prospective or retrospective adult population studies on PD in the setting of RCHF. The following clinical outcomes were used to assess PD therapy: (1) hospitalization rates; (2) heart function; (3) renal function; (4) fluid overload, and (5) adverse clinical outcomes. Summary: Of 864 citations, we excluded 843 citations and included 21 studies (n = 673 patients). After PD, hospitalization days declined significantly (p = 0.0001), and heart function improved significantly (left ventricular ejection fraction: p = 0.0013; New York Heart Association classification: p = 0.0000). There were no statistically significant differences in glomerular filtration rate after PD treatment in non-chronic kidney disease stage 5D patients (p = 0.1065). Among patients treated with PD, body weight decreased significantly (p = 0.0006). The yearly average peritonitis rate was 14.5%, and the average yearly mortality was 20.3%. Key Messages: This systematic review suggests that PD may be an effective and safe therapeutic tool for patients with RCHF."
systematic-review	CRM430770	Contrast Medium-Induced Acute Kidney Injury Contrast Medium-Induced Acute Kidney Injury Contrast medium-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) is a predominant cause of hospital-acquired renal insufficiency. With an increasing number of contrast medium-enhanced radiological procedures being performed in a rapidly increasing ageing population in the Western world, it is imperative that more attention is given to understand the aetiology of CI-AKI to devise novel diagnostic methods and to formulate effective prophylactic and therapeutic regimens to reduce its incidence and its associated morbidity and mortality. This article presents high-yield information on the above-mentioned aspects of CI-AKI, primarily based on results of randomised controlled trials, meta-analyses, systematic reviews and international consensus guidelines.
meta-analysis	CRM437277	"Association of Body Mass Index with Clinical Outcomes in Non-Dialysis-Dependent Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Association of Body Mass Index with Clinical Outcomes in Non-Dialysis-Dependent Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Previous studies have not shown a consistent link between body mass index (BMI) and outcomes such as mortality and kidney disease progression in non-dialysis-dependent chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. Therefore, we aimed to complete a systematic review and meta-analysis study on this subject. Methods: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), and screened 7,123 retrieved studies for inclusion. Two investigators independently selected the studies using predefined criteria and assessed each study's quality using the Newcastle-Ottawa quality assessment scale. We meta-analyzed the results based on the BMI classification system by the WHO. Results: We included 10 studies (with a total sample size of 484,906) in the systematic review and 4 studies in the meta-analyses. The study results were generally heterogeneous. However, following reanalysis of the largest reported study and our meta-analyses, we observed that in stage 3-5 CKD, being underweight was associated with a higher risk of death while being overweight or obese class I was associated with a lower risk of death; however, obesity classes II and III were not associated with risk of death. In addition, reanalysis of the largest available study showed that a higher BMI was associated with an incrementally higher risk of kidney disease progression; however, this association was attenuated in our pooled results. For earlier stages of CKD, we could not complete meta-analyses as the studies were sparse and had heterogeneous BMI classifications and/or referent BMI groups. Conclusion: Among the group of patients with stage 3-5 CKD, we found a differential association between obesity classes I-III and mortality compared to the general population, indicating an obesity paradox in the CKD population."
meta-analysis	CRM442300	"Acute Kidney Injury in Cardiorenal Syndrome Type 1 Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Acute Kidney Injury in Cardiorenal Syndrome Type 1 Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: We evaluated the epidemiology and outcome of acute kidney injury (AKI) in patients with cardiorenal syndrome type 1 (CRS-1) and its subgroups: acute heart failure (AHF), acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and after cardiac surgery (CS). Summary: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis. CRS-1 was defined by AKI (based on RIFLE, AKIN and KDIGO), worsening renal failure (WRF) and renal replacement therapy (RRT). We investigated the three most common clinical causes of CRS-1: AHF, ACS and CS. Out of 332 potential papers, 64 were eligible - with AKI used in 41 studies, WRF in 25 and RRT in 20. The occurrence rate of CRS-1, defined by AKI, WRF and RRT, was 25.4, 22.4 and 2.6%, respectively. AHF patients had a higher occurrence rate of CRS-1 compared to ACS and CS patients (AKI: 47.4 vs. 14.9 vs. 22.1%), but RRT was evenly distributed among the types of acute cardiac disease. AKI was associated with an increased mortality rate (risk ratio = 5.14, 95% CI 3.81-6.94; 24 studies and 35,227 patients), a longer length of stay in the intensive care unit [LOSICU] (median duration = 1.37 days, 95% CI 0.41-2.33; 9 studies and 10,758 patients) and a longer LOS in hospital [LOShosp] (median duration = 3.94 days, 95% CI 1.74-6.15; 8 studies and 35,227 patients). Increasing AKI severity was associated with worse outcomes. The impact of CRS-1 defined by AKI on mortality was greatest in CS patients. RRT had an even greater impact compared to AKI (mortality risk ratio = 9.2, median duration of LOSICU = 10.6 days and that of LOShosp = 20.2 days). Key Messages: Of all included patients, almost one quarter developed AKI and approximately 3% needed RRT. AHF patients experienced the highest occurrence rate of AKI, but the impact on mortality was greatest in CS patients."
meta-analysis	CRM444094	"Risk Factors for Acute Kidney Injury after Cardiovascular Surgery: Evidence from 2,157 Cases and 49,777 Controls - A Meta-Analysis Risk Factors for Acute Kidney Injury after Cardiovascular Surgery: Evidence from 2,157 Cases and 49,777 Controls - A Meta-Analysis Purpose: Cardiovascular surgery-associated acute kidney injury (AKI-CS) contributes to mortality and morbidity. However, risk factors accelerating its development are unclear. We identified risk factors for AKI-CS in patients with cardiopulmonary bypass in the hospital surgical intensive care unit to predict and minimize renal complication in future cardiac surgery. Methods: We analyzed data from 14 case-control studies published prior to June 2014 and indexed in Science Citation Index, PubMed, and other databases to determine the major risk factors for AKI-CS. Results: Analyzed risk factors were divided into three groups: preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative. Preoperative factors included: age (OR, 4.87; 95% CI, 3.50-6.24), NYHA class III/IV (OR, 2.53; 95% CI, 1.32-4.86), hypertension (OR, 1.68; 95% CI, 1.44-1.97), preoperative creatinine (OR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.18-1.14), peripheral vascular disease (OR, 1.31 95% CI, 1.09-1.57), respiratory system disease (OR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.10-1.50), diabetes mellitus (OR, 1.52; 95% CI, 1.07-2.16), and cerebrovascular disease (OR, 2.13; 95% CI, 1.11-4.09). Intraoperative factors were: cardiopulmonary bypass time (OR, 33.78; 95% CI, 23.15-44.41), aortic clamping time (OR, 13.24; 95% CI, 7.78-18.69), use of intra-aortic balloon pump (OR, 4.44; 95% CI, 2.37-8.30), and type of surgery (OR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.43-2.39). Postoperative factors were: infection (OR, 3.58; 95% CI, 1.43-8.97), redo operation (OR, 2.57; 95% CI, 1.75-3.78), emergency surgery (OR, 4.76; 95% CI, 3.05-7.43), and low cardiac output (OR, 2.30; 95% CI, 1.05-5.04). Conclusions: Our results support that preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative factors are associated with AKI-CS. Ejection fraction, BMI, acute myocardial infarction, type of surgery, and congestive heart failure were not absolutely associated with AKI."
research-article	CRM444886	"Angiogenic Factors and Risks of Technique Failure and Cardiovascular Events in Patients Receiving Peritoneal Dialysis Angiogenic Factors and Risks of Technique Failure and Cardiovascular Events in Patients Receiving Peritoneal Dialysis Background: Placental growth factor (PlGF) is a member of the vascular endothelial growth factor family that acts as a pleiotropic cytokine capable of stimulating angiogenesis and accelerating atherogenesis. Soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) antagonizes PlGF action. Higher levels of PlGF and sFlt-1 have been associated with cardiovascular events in patients with chronic kidney disease, yet little is known about their relationship with adverse outcomes in patients on peritoneal dialysis (PD). The aim of this study was to investigate the association of PlGF and sFlt-1 with technique survival and cardiovascular events. Methods: We measured serum levels of PlGF and plasma levels of sFlt-1 in 40 PD patients at Nara Medical University. Results: PlGF and sFlt-1 levels were significantly correlated with the dialysate-to-plasma ratio of creatinine (r = 0.342, p = 0.04 and r = 0.554, p &lt; 0.001) although PlGF and sFlt-1 levels were not correlated with total creatinine clearance and total Kt/V. Additionally, both PlGF and sFlt-1 levels were significantly higher in patients with high transport membranes compared to those without (p = 0.039 and p &lt; 0.001, respectively). Patients with PlGF levels above the median had lower technique survival and higher incidence of cardiovascular events than patients with levels below the median, with hazard ratios of 11.9 and 7.7, respectively, in univariate Cox regression analysis. However, sFlt-1 levels were not associated with technique survival or cardiovascular events (p = 0.11 and p = 0.10, respectively). Conclusion: Elevated PlGF and sFlt-1 are significantly associated with high transport membrane status. PlGF may be a useful predictor of technique survival and cardiovascular events in PD patients."
case-report	CRM449476	Fibroblast Growth Factor 23 and Hypophosphatemia: A Case of Hypophosphatemia along the Rickets-Osteomalacia Spectrum Fibroblast Growth Factor 23 and Hypophosphatemia: A Case of Hypophosphatemia along the Rickets-Osteomalacia Spectrum Phosphorus is a key component of bone, and a deficiency results in poor mineralization along with other systemic symptoms of hypophosphatemia. Various causes of hypophosphatemia with renal wasting of phosphorus have been identified. These include the Fanconi syndrome, various genetic mutations of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) handling and the sodium/phosphate cotransporter, and those due to FGF23 secretion by mesenchymal tumors. Depending on the cause, vitamin D metabolism may also be impaired, which may amplify the deficiency in phosphorus and render treatment more challenging. Here, we report a case of hypophosphatemia and multiple stress fractures in a 20-year-old male college student living with chronic bone pain and anxiety about suffering further fractures. We further review the literature regarding this spectrum.
case-report	CRN324823	Central Neurogenic Respiratory Failure: A Challenging Diagnosis Central Neurogenic Respiratory Failure: A Challenging Diagnosis Background: Central nervous system lesions are rare causes of respiratory failure. Simple observation of the breathing pattern can help localize the lesion, but the examiner needs to be aware of potential pitfalls such as metabolic or pulmonary alterations. Methods: We describe 3 cases in which central neurogenic respiratory failure occurred simultaneously with other alterations or in an unusual presentation. Results: All patients were diagnosed with central neurogenic respiratory failure and treated for it with good recovery. Conclusion: Central neurogenic respiratory failure is a challenging diagnosis and needs to be reminded in difficult-to-wean patients carrying inconclusive evidences of metabolic or pulmonary alterations.
case-report	CRN326340	Unilateral Abducens Nerve Palsy as an Early Feature of Multiple Mononeuropathy Associated with Anti-GQ1b Antibody Unilateral Abducens Nerve Palsy as an Early Feature of Multiple Mononeuropathy Associated with Anti-GQ1b Antibody Patients with anti-GQ1b antibody syndrome show various combinations of ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, areflexia, or altered sensorium as clinical features. We describe herein a unique case with unilateral abducens nerve palsy as an early feature of multiple mononeuropathy involving dysfunctions of the inferior dental plexus and the ulnar nerve, which was thought to be associated with anti-GQ1b antibody. A 27-year-old man presented with acute-onset diplopia. He subsequently experienced numbness not only in the right lower teeth and gums but also on the ulnar side of the left hand. Neurological examinations revealed dysfunctions of the right abducens nerve, the right inferior dental plexus, and the left ulnar nerve, suggesting multiple mononeuropathy. Serum anti-GQ1b antibody was positive. This is a rare case report of a patient with unilateral abducens nerve palsy as an early feature of multiple mononeuropathy associated with anti-GQ1b antibody. We suggest that anti-GQ1b antibody syndrome should be taken into consideration as a differential diagnosis of acute multiple mononeuropathy if ophthalmoplegia is present unilaterally.
case-report	CRN447087	Sodium Valproate Exacerbating an Underlying Disorder of Fatty Acid Metabolism Sodium Valproate Exacerbating an Underlying Disorder of Fatty Acid Metabolism We describe a 29-year-old female who presented with rhabdomyolysis shortly after starting a course of sodium valproate. A thorough investigation revealed a likely mitochondrial origin inducing this susceptibility. An underlying mitochondrial disorder should be considered in all patients who present with undifferentiated disease whilst taking sodium valproate.
case-report	CRN447626	"The Need for a Rational Approach to Vasoconstrictive Syndromes: Transcranial Doppler and Calcium Channel Blockade in Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome The Need for a Rational Approach to Vasoconstrictive Syndromes: Transcranial Doppler and Calcium Channel Blockade in Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome Introduction: Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) typically affects young patients and left untreated can result in hemorrhage or ischemic stroke. Though the disorder has been well characterized in the literature, the most appropriate way to diagnose, treat, and evaluate therapeutic response remains unclear. In previous studies, transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) has shown elevated velocities indicative of vasospasm. This imaging modality is noninvasive and inexpensive; an attractive option for diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring if it is sensitive enough to detect changes in the acute setting given that RCVS often affects the distal vessels early in the course of disease. There is also limited data that calcium channel blockade may be effective in treating vasospasm secondary to RCVS, though the agent of choice, formulation, and dose are unclear. Methods: We report a small cohort of seven patients presenting with thunderclap headache whose vascular imaging was consistent with RCVS. All were treated with calcium channel blockade and monitored with TCD performed every 1–2 days. Results: On presentation, TCD correlated with standard neuroimaging findings of vasospasm (on MR, CT, and conventional angiography). TCD was also able to detect improvement in velocities in the acute setting that correlated well with initiation of calcium channel blockade. Long-acting verapamil appeared to have the greatest effect on velocities compared to nimodipine and shorter-acting calcium channel blockers. Conclusion: Though small, our cohort demonstrates potential utility of TCD to monitor RCVS, and relative superiority of extended-release verapamil over other calcium channel blockers, illustrating the need for larger randomized trials."
case-report	CRN448704	Role of Therapeutic Plasma Exchange in Treatment of Tumefactive Multiple Sclerosis-Associated Low CD4 and CD8 Levels Role of Therapeutic Plasma Exchange in Treatment of Tumefactive Multiple Sclerosis-Associated Low CD4 and CD8 Levels We report a 35-year-old healthy male who developed central nervous system inflammatory demyelinating disease consistent with tumefactive multiple sclerosis. About 2 weeks after onset of symptoms and prior to initiation of therapy, the patient had lymphopenia and low CD4 and CD8 levels. His lymphocyte count was 400 cells/µl (850–3,900 cells/µl), CD4 was 193 cells/µl (490–1,740 cells/µl) and CD8 was 103 cells/µl (180–1,170 cells/µl). He was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone followed by therapeutic plasma exchange, the levels of CD4 and CD8 normalized, and ultimately, he recovered completely.
case-report	CRN448915	Pudendal Neuralgia as the Initial Manifestation of Infiltrative Sacrococcygeal Chordoma Pudendal Neuralgia as the Initial Manifestation of Infiltrative Sacrococcygeal Chordoma Sacrococcygeal chordoma is a malignant tumour originating from remnants of the notochord. Chordomas are slow-growing tumours whose symptoms develop insidiously. We present the case of a 72-year-old woman with a 6-month history of genital pain radiating to the perianal area and exacerbating when she was in a sitting position. MRI and PET studies revealed a large mass in the sacrococcygeal region causing bone destruction and invasion of neurovascular structures. The immunohistochemical study of the surgical specimen determined it to be chordoma. This is the first published case of pudendal neuralgia as a form of presentation of sacrococcygeal chordoma.
case-report	CRN479584	"Unexpected Aphasia following Right Temporal Lobectomy as Treatment of Recurrent Super-Refractory Status Epilepticus Unexpected Aphasia following Right Temporal Lobectomy as Treatment of Recurrent Super-Refractory Status Epilepticus Background: Super-refractory status epilepticus (SRSE) is a critical neurological condition with a high mortality rate. There are only limited data to direct the treatment in SRSE, and surgery has been reported to successfully stop SRSE. We present a case of recurrent SRSE treated with urgent right temporal lobectomy in a right-handed woman which potentially saved her life but resulted in crossed sensory aphasia. Case Description: A 61-year-old woman with a recent episode of prolonged focal SRSE due to right frontotemporal meningioma and hyperkalemia was admitted for recurrence of seizures that evolved to SRSE despite aggressive treatment with multiple fosphenytoin antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and anesthetics. The patient underwent a right temporal lobectomy to remove the encephalomalacic and gliotic tissue around the meningioma that had been resected during a previous admission. Postoperatively the patient had a protracted course with modest improvement after stepwise reduction in her AEDs; however, her recovery unveiled a severe crossed aphasia. Conclusion: Resective surgery is an effective treatment option in the treatment of SRSE, although the recovery period can be protracted. Crossed aphasia after right temporal lobectomy should be considered in patients where it is not possible to complete a presurgical evaluation of higher cortical functions."
case-report	CRN479787	Recurrent Patent Foramen Ovale-Related Cerebral Infarcts Alternately Causing Bilateral Hand Paresis Recurrent Patent Foramen Ovale-Related Cerebral Infarcts Alternately Causing Bilateral Hand Paresis Isolated hand paresis is a rare presentation of stroke, which mostly results from a lesion in the cortical hand motor area, a knob-like area within the precentral gyrus. I report the case of a patient who experienced recurrent ischemic stroke alternately involving bilateral hand knob areas, causing isolated hand paresis. There was no abnormal finding on brain and neck magnetic resonance angiography, transthoracic echocardiography, and 48-h Holter monitoring, and there were no abnormal immunologic and coagulation laboratory findings. The only embolic source was found to be a patent foramen ovale, which was proven on transesophageal echocardiography. The patient underwent percutaneous device closure of patent foramen ovale after alternately repeated paresis of both hands despite antiplatelet treatment. This case suggests that ischemic stroke affecting the cortical knob area, albeit extremely rare, may recur due to a patent foramen ovale, and it necessitates complete investigation, including transesophageal echocardiography, to identify possible embolic sources.
case-report	CRN479788	TUBB2B Mutation in an Adult Patient with Myoclonus-Dystonia TUBB2B Mutation in an Adult Patient with Myoclonus-Dystonia Background: Tubulin mutations are a cause of neuronal migrational disorders referred to as tubulinopathies. Mutations in tubulin genes can have a severe impact on microtubule function and result in heterogeneous clinical presentations. Current understanding of the clinical spectrum of tubulinopathies is predominantly based on research in fetal tissue and early-childhood cases. Methods: Testing of candidate genes followed by whole-exome sequencing was performed in an adult woman with a neurodevelopmental, hyperkinetic movement disorder, to identify the underlying genetic cause. Bioinformatic modeling and a systematic review of literature was conducted to investigate genotype-phenotype correlations. Results: The patient was found to carry a heterozygous, de novo c.722G&
case-report	CRN479957	Ischemic Stroke in a Young Patient Heralding a Left Ventricular Noncompaction Cardiomyopathy Ischemic Stroke in a Young Patient Heralding a Left Ventricular Noncompaction Cardiomyopathy Strokes in young patients may be the clinical expression of many complex and extremely rare diseases. Uncommon causes constitute less than 5% of all strokes, but are present in 30% of strokes in young patients. We report the case of a young woman whose ischemic stroke led to the diagnosis of a rare embolic cardiomyopathy, left ventricular noncompaction cardiomyopathy, requiring a heart transplant.
case-report	CRN480228	Chronological Changes in Brain Blood Flow and Central Benzodiazepine Receptor Binding Potential in a Patient with Symptomatic Epilepsy after Surgery for Aneurysmal Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: 123I-Iomazenil Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography Studies Chronological Changes in Brain Blood Flow and Central Benzodiazepine Receptor Binding Potential in a Patient with Symptomatic Epilepsy after Surgery for Aneurysmal Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: 123I-Iomazenil Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography Studies Early 123I-iomazenil single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images are correlated with blood flow in the brain, and late images are correlated with cortical benzodiazepine receptor binding potential. Reduced metabolism in the contralateral cerebral hemisphere is indicated by crossed cerebellar hypoperfusion (CCH). We present the case of a 63-year-old man who developed symptomatic epilepsy 13 days after surgery for an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Early images on 123I-iomazenil SPECT 2 days after seizure onset revealed CCH and hyperperfusion in the affected cerebral hemisphere where benzodiazepine receptor binding potential was reduced in late images on 123I-iomazenil SPECT. These abnormal findings resolved on repeated 123I-iomazenil SPECT 1 month after seizure onset. The case we present here is consistent with the idea that the central benzodiazepine receptor system in the human brain undergoes changes that are related to seizures due to epilepsy.
case-report	CRN492664	Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy due to Digenic Inheritance of DES and CAPN3 Mutations Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy due to Digenic Inheritance of DES and CAPN3 Mutations We report the clinical and genetic analysis of a 63-year-old man with progressive weakness developing over more than 20 years. Prior to his initial visit, he underwent multiple neurological and rheumatological evaluations and was treated for possible inflammatory myopathy. He did not respond to any treatment that was prescribed and was referred to our center for another opinion. He underwent a neurological evaluation, electromyography, magnetic resonance imaging of his legs, and a muscle biopsy. All testing indicated a chronic myopathy without inflammatory features suggesting a genetic myopathy. Whole-exome sequencing testing more than 50 genes known to cause myopathy revealed variants in the COL6A3 (rs144651558), RYR1 (rs143445685), CAPN3 (rs138172448), and DES (rs144901249) genes. We hypothesized that the inheritance pattern could follow a digenic pattern of inheritance. Screening for these polymorphisms in an unaffected sister revealed the presence of all these same variants except for that in the CAPN3 gene. All variants were studied to determine their frequency and if they had been previously reported as mutations. They were also subjected to protein modeling programs, including SIFT, PolyPhen, and MutationTaster. This analysis indicated that the CAPN3 variant c.1663G&
case-report	CRN492891	Does Natalizumab Induce or Aggravate Psoriasis? A Case Study and Review of the Literature Does Natalizumab Induce or Aggravate Psoriasis? A Case Study and Review of the Literature Psoriasis is a relatively common immune-mediated chronic inflammatory skin disease. It is well known that interferon-beta, a drug used in the management of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, could exacerbate or induce de novo psoriasis. There is limited evidence in the literature based only on case reports that natalizumab could induce or aggravate psoriasis. In this case study, we present a 33-year-old patient who developed plaque psoriasis during natalizumab treatment.
case-report	CRN492892	Endovascular Thrombectomy in Acute-Onset Ischemic Stroke – beyond the Standard Time Windows: A Case Report and a Review of the Literature Endovascular Thrombectomy in Acute-Onset Ischemic Stroke – beyond the Standard Time Windows: A Case Report and a Review of the Literature Endovascular thrombectomy following an acute ischemic stroke can lead to improved functional outcome when performed early. Current guidelines suggest treatment within 6 h after symptom onset. Recent studies including the DEFUSE-3 and DAWN trials demonstrate that some patients may benefit from thrombectomy up to 16 and 24 h after symptom onset, respectively. We present a case of delayed thrombectomy in a 43-year-old man with acute dysarthria, left-sided weakness, and visual neglect. Initial MRI/A demonstrated a small completed stroke and a thrombus in the right middle cerebral artery. Thirty-seven hours after symptom onset, his weakness acutely worsened. A repeat MRI revealed an unchanged core infarct volume and a cerebral angiogram suggested an abrupt occlusion of the right distal M1. Thrombectomy was performed with complete reperfusion and the patient’s strength recovered following the procedure. We compared our clinical reasoning with the DEFUSE-3 and DAWN study criteria, and conclude that there is a subset of patients that may safely benefit from thrombectomy in later time windows beyond the trial criteria, especially in the setting of clinical examination of imaging mismatch.
case-report	CRN493725	A Modified Surgical Technique for Transposition of the Vertebral Artery to the Common Carotid Artery A Modified Surgical Technique for Transposition of the Vertebral Artery to the Common Carotid Artery A proximal occluded vertebral artery (VA) with reconstitution by muscular collateral vessels is a relatively common finding. However, due to inadequate intracranial anastomosis and hypoplasia or stenosis of the opposite VA, a number of patients develop symptoms of brain ischemia. In the current case, a 63-year-old man presented with repeat neurological symptoms such as dizziness, nausea, vomiting, dysarthria, left hemiparesis, and right hemianopsia. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple posterior infarctions. Angiography revealed the VA to be occluded and reconstituted by collateral vessels. Considering the above results, we performed vertebral carotid artery transposition. However, several technical difficulties were encountered due to space limitations in the operative field and the limited length of the vessels to be anastomosed. To overcome such situations, we introduced a modified posterior wall end-to-side anastomosis technique.
case-report	CRN494126	Stroke due to Paradoxical Embolization Related to Fibroid Uterus Enlargement Compressing the Right Common Iliac Vein Stroke due to Paradoxical Embolization Related to Fibroid Uterus Enlargement Compressing the Right Common Iliac Vein Stroke in young women is commonly cryptogenic or associated with an underlying hypercoagulable state (e.g., hormonal contraception). Paradoxical embolization has been postulated as a potential risk factor for stroke in young adults. Many sources of venous thrombosis leading to paradoxical embolization have been described. There have been few reported cases of uterine enlargement leading to iliac vein compression and paradoxical embolization. We present the case of a young adult woman who had a left middle cerebral artery infarction related to patent foramen ovale and right common iliac vein compression from an enlarged fibroid uterus.
case-report	CRO324184	A Diagnostic Dilemma: Metastatic Testicular Cancer and Systemic Sarcoidosis – A Review of the Literature A Diagnostic Dilemma: Metastatic Testicular Cancer and Systemic Sarcoidosis – A Review of the Literature Sarcoidosis is a multisystem disease that most commonly involves the lungs and the lymph nodes, but with genitourinary tract involvement, can easily mimic testicular cancer with metastasis to the lungs. We describe the case of a 30-year-old African-American male who presented with complaints of a headache, skin lesions, and a scrotal mass. A computed tomography scan of the head showed lesions in the frontotemporal and pons region, causing obstructive hydrocephalus. An ultrasound of the scrotum showed an enlarged epididymis bilaterally as well as a solid hypoechoic ill-defined mass on the right side, separate from the intact testis. Given the high suspicion for testicular malignancy with brain metastasis, a right orchiectomy was completed. The pathology revealed non-caseating necrotizing granulomas that stained negative for tubercular and fungal organisms, which was consistent with sarcoidosis. Additionally, the patient’s skin and central nervous system (CNS) lesions improved on steroids that had been started for cerebral edema. Given the predilection of testicular cancer for CNS metastasis, neurosarcoidosis can also be mistaken for testicular cancer metastasis to the CNS, as seen in our case. Differentiating testicular cancer from genitourinary sarcoidosis is difficult but can be clarified using a combination of clinical presentation, epidemiology, serum markers (ACE, AFP, B-HCG), biopsies from skin/lymph nodes, and sometimes imaging. It is critical to differentiate genitourinary sarcoidosis from malignancy, as a misdiagnosis can lead to unnecessary surgical interventions, which have important implications for future fertility. There can also be a coexistence of as well as an association between testicular cancer and sarcoidosis, which should be recognized by health care providers. Both authors contributed equally to the manuscript.
case-report	CRO324584	"Extended Venous Thromboembolism Prophylaxis for High-Risk Patients Undergoing Surgery for Malignancy Extended Venous Thromboembolism Prophylaxis for High-Risk Patients Undergoing Surgery for Malignancy Background: In surgical patients with known malignancy, the odds ratio for an episode of a venous thromboembolism is approximately 6.5 compared to a group of patients without malignancy undergoing the same procedure [Heit et al.: Arch Intern Med 2000;160:809–815]. Case Report: We present a case of a 46-year-old Caucasian male with a history of adenocarcinoma of the rectum. The patient received neoadjuvant treatment prior to low anterior resection with diverting colostomy. He received short-term prophylaxis for venous thrombosis, but unfortunately developed a blood clot in a lower extremity several weeks after surgery. Conclusion: There is a well-defined role in carefully selected patients for the use of extended prophylaxis to prevent venous thromboembolic complications following cancer surgery."
case-report	CRO324920	A Case of Disseminated and Fulminant Plasmacytomas That Developed during Bortezomib Treatment A Case of Disseminated and Fulminant Plasmacytomas That Developed during Bortezomib Treatment Multiple myeloma is an incurable and slow growing plasma cell neoplasm. The introduction of new drugs has increased the number of treatment options. Bortezomib, the first-in-class proteasome inhibitor, has been shown to have a significant antitumor activity in the treatment of relapse/refractory patients with multiple myeloma. Additionally, plasmacytomas have shown significant response to bortezomib. In this case report, we describe a patient who developed disseminated and fulminant extramedullary plasmacytomas during combination chemotherapy treatment with bortezomib within a short period, after having shown clinical improvement.
case-report	CRO324922	Hodgkin’s Lymphoma and Paraneoplastic Phenomena in the Central Nervous System: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Hodgkin’s Lymphoma and Paraneoplastic Phenomena in the Central Nervous System: A Case Report and Review of the Literature A 25-year-old male patient presented to our Ear, Nose and Throat clinic with a history of nausea, vomiting, headache, vertigo and weight loss of 5 kg over the preceding 3 months. An enlarged cervical lymph node was detected at clinical examination. Lymph node biopsy showed nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NLPHL, nodular paragranuloma). Because of the neurological symptoms a cerebral MRI scan was performed and revealed an intense perivascular, bilateral, contrast-medium enhancing lesion of the temporal lobes suggestive of cerebral vasculitis. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed an increased number of mononuclear cells, but there was no indication for neurotropic viral or bacterial infections. EEG revealed a left temporal epileptic focus, and anti-epileptic therapy was initiated. NLPHL was treated with 2 cycles of ABVD chemotherapy and 20 Gy involved-field radiotherapy. Steroid therapy (prednisone 100 mg q.d.) for the presumed paraneoplastic neurological manifestation was started 1 week before chemotherapy and led to the rapid disappearance of complaints. Because of renewed onset of nausea and vertigo after 3 weeks of treatment with ABVD chemotherapy and 4 weeks of treatment with steroids, a follow-up brain MRI and EEG were performed and demonstrated complete disappearance of the ‘vasculitic’ changes without additional pathologic findings. Five months after therapy, the patient is without neurological symptoms and a PET-CT showed a complete remission. This case is a unique example of paraneoplastic central nervous system (CNS) involvement in a patient with newly diagnosed NLPHL. We present a review of the literature on paraneoplastic CNS symptoms in Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
case-report	CRO325399	Possible Clinical Significance of Serum Soluble Interleukin-2 Receptor Level in Primary Bone Lymphoma: Two Case Reports Possible Clinical Significance of Serum Soluble Interleukin-2 Receptor Level in Primary Bone Lymphoma: Two Case Reports In two patients with primary bone lymphoma (PBL) treated in our clinic, serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) reflected the clinical course. In both cases, sIL-2R levels were high before treatment and normalized with the therapeutic effects of chemotherapy, coinciding with the changes in lactate dehydrogenase levels and radiographic findings. Adding to the recently reported results of the diagnostic ability of sIL-2R in PBL, our case study highlights the clinical significance of serum sIL-2R levels as a tumor marker in PBL cases.
case-report	CRO326067	Mixed Adenocarcinoma of the Rectovaginal Septum Associated with Endometriosis and Endometrial Carcinoma: A Case Report Mixed Adenocarcinoma of the Rectovaginal Septum Associated with Endometriosis and Endometrial Carcinoma: A Case Report Purpose: To present a case of primary mixed (clear cell and endometrioid type) adenocarcinoma of the rectovaginal septum, probably arising from endometriosis and associated with a highly differentiated, early-stage endometrioid endometrial carcinoma. The case was managed by a minimally invasive approach and postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy. Results: The patient underwent clinical/instrumental follow-up and a second-look laparoscopy after the primary surgery as well as adjuvant chemotherapy. No evidence of disease could be observed after the treatment. Conclusion: Surgery with postoperative chemotherapy can be recommended for the treatment of mixed adenocarcinoma of the rectovaginal septum.
case-report	CRO326800	An Unusual Case of Unilateral Malignant Leydig Cell Tumour of the Testis An Unusual Case of Unilateral Malignant Leydig Cell Tumour of the Testis Leydig cell tumour is a benign testicular non-germ cell tumour, and malignant transformation is rare. We report a case of a 35-year-old man who came to our hospital with a painless left testicular mass measuring 1.2 × 1 cm. Histological evaluation of the tumour showed features of a malignant Leydig cell tumour but no infiltration beyond the capsule or metastasis. The small size of the tumour was remarkable.
case-report	CRO326801	Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura and Gemcitabine Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura and Gemcitabine Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare and life-threatening complication of gemcitabine treatment. Since the approval of this nucleoside analog for the treatment of pancreatic cancer by the FDA in 1996, reported incidence varies from 0.015 to 1.4%. The classic ‘pentad’ describing the disease process (fever, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, neurological complications and renal impairment) is not always present to the same extent in every patient. Here, we present a rare case of TTP associated specifically with gemcitabine treatment, and further, we briefly discuss the manifestations, treatment options and outcomes related to the complication. In our opinion, it is important to realize that as the indications for the use of gemcitabine increase and its use becomes more widespread, TTP and other disorders on the spectrum of thrombotic microangiopathies are important considerations to remember in patients with worsening anemia and thrombocytopenia. New onset or exacerbation of underlying hypertension may provide a clue to diagnose the disease entity earlier in this subgroup of patients.
case-report	CRO326851	Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy in a HIV-Negative Patient with Small Lymphocytic Leukemia following Treatment with Rituximab Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy in a HIV-Negative Patient with Small Lymphocytic Leukemia following Treatment with Rituximab We describe a case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) caused by infection with the human polyomavirus JC virus in a patient with B-cell small lymphocytic leukemia who was treated with rituximab. The first symptoms of PML appeared immediately following the last of five cycles of rituximab, cyclophosphamide and pentostatin. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed changes consistent with PML, although JC virus DNA was not detected by polymerase chain reaction assay of the cerebrospinal fluid. A stereotactic biopsy of the brain showed histological changes consistent with PML, while electron microscopy revealed JC virus particles attached to the nuclei of astrocytes. The patient was treated supportively but died 53 days after the initial onset of symptoms.
case-report	CRO327091	Acute Respiratory Distress due to Thymoma in a Patient Treated with TK Inhibitor: A Case Report and Review of the Current Treatment Options Acute Respiratory Distress due to Thymoma in a Patient Treated with TK Inhibitor: A Case Report and Review of the Current Treatment Options Thymic malignancies are rare intrathoracic tumors that may be aggressive and difficult to treat in advanced stage. Surgery is the cornerstone of the management of thymomas: it is significant for the definite histopathological diagnosis and staging, and in most cases, it constitutes the first step of the treatment strategy. For patients with primary unresectable thymomas, the multimodal treatment schedule nowadays includes neoadjuvant chemotherapy, extensive surgery, adjuvant radiotherapy, and in some cases, adjuvant chemotherapy. A patient with a history of stage III COPD and an undiagnosed thoracic mass was admitted to the intensive care unit with acute respiratory distress. A radiologic evaluation by CT scan revealed a mass of 13 cm in diameter at the mediastinum. Fine needle aspiration was performed and revealed a thymoma. Due to poor performance status, the patient was not able to undergo surgery. He refused to be treated with neither chemotherapy nor radiotherapy, but due to EGFR overexpression, treatment with TK inhibitor was suggested. Fine needle aspiration biopsy is commonly used to identify metastasis to the mediastinum. However, it is less often employed as a primary diagnostic tool for tumors, particularly thymic neoplasms. The use of targeted therapies for the treatment of thymic malignancies has been described in the literature. Over the past years, significant efforts have been made to dissect the molecular pathways involved in the carcinogenesis of these tumors. Insights have been obtained following anecdotal clinical responses to targeted therapies, and large-scale genomic analyses have been conducted.
systematic-review	CRO365885	"Pemetrexed for Ovarian Cancer: A Systematic Review of the Published Literature and a Consecutive Series of Patients Treated in a Nonclinical Trial Setting Pemetrexed for Ovarian Cancer: A Systematic Review of the Published Literature and a Consecutive Series of Patients Treated in a Nonclinical Trial Setting Objective: To gain a better understanding of the role of pemetrexed in ovarian cancer patients, we conducted a systematic review of the published literature and evaluated a consecutive, single-institution series of non-study pemetrexed-treated patients. Methods/Results: Thirteen published articles met this study's eligibility criteria, providing a total of 376 unique and evaluable ovarian cancer patients. This systematic review demonstrated tumor response rates with pemetrexed-based chemotherapy from 9 to 84%; the agent appeared to be well tolerated. Similarly, 13 consecutive patients with ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer were treated with pemetrexed at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., USA, from 2004 through 2013. The median number of previous chemotherapy regimens was 4; most patients received single-agent pemetrexed (n = 9). Patients received a median of 2 cycles of pemetrexed-based chemotherapy; 1 patient received 10 cycles (7 months' worth) with treatment ongoing at the time of this report. The median survival from the start of pemetrexed was 4.8 months (95% confidence interval 1.2, 15 months). Two patients manifested a 50% drop in Ca-125 levels. Again, pemetrexed was relatively well tolerated. Conclusion: Pemetrexed has antineoplastic activity in patients with ovarian cancer - even among those who have been heavily pretreated - and therefore merits further study."
case-report	CRO447054	A Case of Suspected Breast Cancer Metastasis to Brachial Plexus Detected by Magnetic Resonance Neurography A Case of Suspected Breast Cancer Metastasis to Brachial Plexus Detected by Magnetic Resonance Neurography Metastasis of breast cancer is often detected through a long-term course and difficult to diagnose. We report a case of brachial plexopathy suspected to be the initial lesion of breast cancer metastasis, which was only detected by magnetic resonance (MR) neurography. A 61-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital within 2 years after operation for breast cancer because of progressive dysesthesia and motor weakness initially in the upper limb on the affected side and subsequently on the contralateral side. Enhanced computed tomography, axillary lymph node echo, gallium scintigraphy, and short tau inversion recovery MR images showed no abnormalities. MR neurography revealed a swollen region in the left brachial plexus. We suspected neuralgic amyotrophy and initiated treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin therapy and steroid therapy. However, there was no improvement, and the progression of motor weakness in the bilateral lower limbs appeared over 4 years. Concomitant elevation of carbohydrate antigen 15-3 level (58.9 U/ml) led us to suspect breast cancer metastasis, which was associated with the worsening of neurological findings, although gallium scintigraphy and bone scintigraphy showed no inflammatory and metastatic lesions. Swelling of the cauda equina in enhanced lumbar MR imaging and abnormal accumulation at the brachial plexus and cervical spinal cord in positron-emission tomography were newly detected contrary to the normal findings on the gallium scintigraphy, which suggested cerebrospinal fluid seeding. We suspected breast cancer metastasis about the initial brachial plexopathy based on the clinical course. MR neurography may be a helpful tool to detect metastatic lesion, especially in nerve roots.
case-report	CRO447348	Synchronous Onset of Breast and Pancreatic Cancers: Results of Germline and Somatic Genetic Analysis Synchronous Onset of Breast and Pancreatic Cancers: Results of Germline and Somatic Genetic Analysis Background: Synchronous cancers have occasionally been detected at initial diagnosis among patients with breast and ovarian cancer. However, simultaneous coexistence and diagnosis of breast and pancreas cancer has not previously been reported. Case Report: Paternal transmission of a germline BRCA2 mutation to a patient who was diagnosed at age 40 with locally advanced breast and pancreas cancer is presented. Somatic genomic analysis of both cancers with next-generation DNA sequencing confirmed the germline result and reported a variety of variants of unknown significance alterations, of which two were present in both the breast and pancreas cancers. Discussion: The possibility that genomic alterations could have been responsible for modulating the phenotypic or clinical expression of this rare presentation is considered. The authors call attention to the practice of privatizing the clinicogenetic information gained from genetic testing and call for health policy that will facilitate sharing in order to advance the outcomes of patients diagnosed with hereditary cancers.
case-report	CRO447349	Diagnosis of Jejunal Metastases from Lung Cancer Using Capsule Endoscopy Diagnosis of Jejunal Metastases from Lung Cancer Using Capsule Endoscopy Gastrointestinal metastases from lung cancer are rare and usually asymptomatic. We report a case of small bowel metastases from primary lung cancer revealed by abdominal pain and severe recurrent anaemia. The diagnosis was obtained with capsule endoscopy. This non-invasive procedure thus represents a valuable method contributing to a rapid and detailed diagnosis while reducing underdiagnosis, and it should thus be considered for lung cancer patients complaining of abdominal symptoms, which may indeed be related to gastrointestinal metastases.
case-report	CRO447553	Utilization of Behavioral Medicine Services to Refine Medical Diagnostic Formulation in the Face of Uncertain Symptom Presentation Utilization of Behavioral Medicine Services to Refine Medical Diagnostic Formulation in the Face of Uncertain Symptom Presentation In the ever expanding realm of cancer care, the psychosocial impact of disease and medical treatments has been garnering increased attention. To address these needs, the integration of behavioral medicine services into inpatient and outpatient medical settings has added a unique resource available to oncologists. Psycho-oncologists may assist providers via the provision of psychological assessment and intervention, supplying valuable consultation to members of the medical team and much needed clinical services to patients. The authors present a complex case in which the utilization of behavioral medicine consultation to clarify the diagnostic picture was critical to identifying underlying anatomic disease.
case-report	CRO447688	"Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen PET/CT: False-Positive Results due to Sarcoidosis Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen PET/CT: False-Positive Results due to Sarcoidosis We report on a 72-year-old male patient who developed sarcoidosis of the mediastinal lymph nodes, the liver, and the prostate 11 years ago. Seven years later, he underwent transurethral resection of the prostate by laser due to hematuria. Pathology of the resected chips showed a ‘granulomatous prostatitis with epitheloid cells’. Malignancy was histologically excluded at that time. Four years later, he was diagnosed with an undifferentiated prostate carcinoma, with a Gleason score of 5 + 4 = 9. After initiation of antihormonal therapy, he underwent radical prostatectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy, which revealed a pT3b pN1 carcinoma with infiltrated resection margins. Three months later, the prostate-specific antigen level was 1.4 ng/ml, and a local recurrence was suspected by ultrasound; consequently, a 68Ga-prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) PET/CT was performed. This examination seemed to confirm the local recurrence, a right pelvic lymph node metastasis, and a hepatic metastasis. However, ultrasound with contrast medium could not confirm the metastatic spread to the liver. In palliative intention, radiotherapy of the pelvis was done. After 50 Gy, the supposed recurrence had markedly shrunk, and an additional boost dose with 16.2 Gy was applied. Two years later, the patient is still free of disease. Due to this clinical development, we doubt the diagnosis of a fulminant progression of the prostate cancer as suspected by PSMA-PET/CT. Instead, we suspect a recurrence of the previously proven sarcoidosis leading to false-positive results. Our focus in this report is on the interaction between PSMA-PET/CT and sarcoidosis. Another report on a case of sarcoidosis of the spleen seems to confirm this possibility [Kobe et al: Clin Nucl Med 2015;40: 897–898]."
case-report	CRO447689	Pediatric Oral/Maxillofacial Soft Tissue Sarcomas: A Clinicopathologic Report of Four Cases Pediatric Oral/Maxillofacial Soft Tissue Sarcomas: A Clinicopathologic Report of Four Cases Pediatric soft tissue sarcomas of the oral/maxillofacial region are rare neoplasms that present significant difficulty with respect to treatment and local control measures. We report four cases of pediatric oral/maxillofacial soft tissue sarcomas from our tertiary care pediatric hospital and emphasize the rarity of these malignancies and the challenges encountered in treating these lesions, and suggest areas for further research. We conclude that multimodal therapy and interdisciplinary cooperation are paramount to successful management of these lesions.
case-report	CRO447710	"Cabazitaxel for Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer: Retrospective Data Analysis from an Indian Centre Cabazitaxel for Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer: Retrospective Data Analysis from an Indian Centre Objective: To determine the efficacy and safety of cabazitaxel in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients from the named patient programme (NPP) at our centre. Methods: mCRPC patients who progressed on docetaxel were given cabazitaxel intravenously every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurred. Overall survival, progression-free survival, prostate-specific antigen response, quality of life (QOL) changes, and safety were reported. Results: Nine men received cabazitaxel (median: 7 cycles; range: 1–27) under the NPP and were followed until death. Median survival was 14.07 months (1.07–23.80) and progression-free survival was 2.67 months (1.07–20.27). QOL was stable for most patients. Common adverse events (grade ≥3) were neutropenia (n = 8), anaemia (n = 4), and leucopenia (n = 4). Conclusion: These data from 9 patients are consistent with the results reported in the TROPIC study with a manageable safety profile."
case-report	CRO447711	"An Atypical Initial Presentation of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia with Central Nervous System and Lymph Node Blast Crises An Atypical Initial Presentation of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia with Central Nervous System and Lymph Node Blast Crises We describe the case of a young man with therapy-naive chronic myeloid leukemia who did not initially have any peripheral blood or bone marrow excess blasts but presented with extramedullary myeloid blast crises involving the central nervous system and multiple lymph nodes. Conventional cytogenetic tests were positive for t(9;22)(q34:q11) as well as for trisomy 8, 14 and 21 and del(16q). The patient’s peripheral blood and bone marrow were positive for the BCR-ABL oncogene when analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction. He achieved good clinical, radiological, cytogenetic and molecular response to acute myeloid leukemia induction chemotherapy combined with 16 doses of triple intrathecal chemotherapy and oral dasatinib (second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor) treatment. Due to his poor general condition, he was treated with 24 Gy of whole-brain radiation therapy, as allogeneic stem cell transplantation was not feasible. Although extramedullary CNS blast crises are usually associated with a very poor outcome, our patient remains in complete cytogenetic and molecular remission, on single-agent dasatinib, 4 years after the diagnosis with no current evidence of active extramedullary disease. This suggests that dasatinib has a role in controlling not only chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia, but also its CNS blast crisis."
case-report	CRO447770	Combination Chemotherapy of Mitomycin C and Methotrexate Was Effective on Metastatic Breast Cancer Resistant to Eribulin, Vinorelbine, and Bevacizumab after Anthracycline, Taxane, and Capecitabine Combination Chemotherapy of Mitomycin C and Methotrexate Was Effective on Metastatic Breast Cancer Resistant to Eribulin, Vinorelbine, and Bevacizumab after Anthracycline, Taxane, and Capecitabine Complete cure of metastatic breast cancer (MBC) is still considered difficult even after the development of new drugs. While new drugs have been continuously developed, conventional drugs such as mitomycin C (MMC) and methotrexate (MTX) have become less used. Combination chemotherapy with MMC and MTX (MMC/MTX) was reported to be effective for 9.7–19.4% of 31 patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2)-negative MBC who were aggressively treated with anthracycline, taxane, capecitabine, and vinorelbine. However, its efficacy, when it is used after newly developed drugs such as eribulin and bevacizumab, is yet to be evaluated. We here introduce one case in which MMC/MTX was effective for MBC that was resistant to chemotherapy with eribulin, vinorelbine, and bevacizumab with paclitaxel after sequential treatment with anthracycline, taxane, capecitabine, and several hormonal therapies. Lung metastasis was newly observed after sequential treatment of MBC for 6 years. Although the disease was resistant to chemotherapy of eribulin, vinorelbine, and bevacizumab with paclitaxel, it responded well to the treatment of MMC/MTX, which continued for 7 months. This case suggests that MMC/MTX could be an effective treatment for MBC patients when the disease progressively develops even after aggressive treatment with multiple regimens.
case-report	CRO447771	Primary Cerebellar Neuroendocrine Tumors: Chimeras or Real Entities A Case Report with a 6-Year Follow-Up Primary Cerebellar Neuroendocrine Tumors: Chimeras or Real Entities A Case Report with a 6-Year Follow-Up We report the case of a 38-year-old patient who was diagnosed with a cerebellar well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumor (WDNET) in 2009. At first glance, we believed that it was a metastasis from an unrecognized WDNET arising outside the cerebellum. However, despite a prolonged follow-up of 6 years, an extracranial WDNET has never been found. During this time, the tumor recurred locally twice, and the patient was treated with surgery and radiotherapy. At the moment, he enjoys good general conditions and his tumor is under control. Due to the histopathological characteristics and clinical behavior of the tumor, we believe that this is the first report to date of a primary cerebellar WDNET.
case-report	CRO447998	Thrombotic Microangiopathy Revealing Bone Metastases from an Ethmoid Sinus Carcinoma Thrombotic Microangiopathy Revealing Bone Metastases from an Ethmoid Sinus Carcinoma Cancer-related thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a rare entity whose clinical and biological characteristics have been described in various tumors. Here we describe the first case of cancer-related TMA revealing diffuse bone metastases from an ethmoid sinus carcinoma.
case-report	CRO447999	Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase-Positive Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma with Cardiac Metastasis and Arterial Tumor Embolisms during First-Course Chemotherapy Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase-Positive Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma with Cardiac Metastasis and Arterial Tumor Embolisms during First-Course Chemotherapy We described an 11-year-old boy suffering from pediatric anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma with heart metastasis at diagnosis and arterial tumor embolisms during chemotherapy. Both the heart metastasis and pericardial effusion showed improvement with prednisolone, but numbness and pallor sequentially developed in his lower extremities during the first course of chemotherapy. Contrast-enhanced imaging revealed occlusion of the right anterior tibial artery and left popliteal artery. These symptoms were spontaneously remitted due to the compensation of other arteries. Arterial tumor embolism is a rare but possible complication when a lymphoma shows intracardiac infiltration.
case-report	CRO448073	Metastatic Eccrine Porocarcinoma: A Rare Case of Successful Treatment Metastatic Eccrine Porocarcinoma: A Rare Case of Successful Treatment The successful treatment of the rare malignancy eccrine porocarcinoma (EP) is extremely challenging, often not rewarding and when associated with metastatic disease, therapy results are disappointing. We present a unique case of treatment response of metastatic EP, with a significant disease-free interval. The patient has remained in clinical and radiological remission for 36 months since diagnosis of metastatic disease.
case-report	CRO448111	Response to Paclitaxel in an Adult Patient with Advanced Kaposiform Hemangioendothelioma Response to Paclitaxel in an Adult Patient with Advanced Kaposiform Hemangioendothelioma Background: Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma (KHE) is a rare neoplasm of vascular origin that typically arises from the skin or soft tissues as a solitary tumor. The optimal therapy for this disease is still unknown. We report the case of an adult patient presenting with metastatic KHE of the spleen, who had a partial response after treatment with paclitaxel. Case Presentation: A 36-year-old man presented in November 2012 with a nontraumatic rupture of the spleen. A splenectomy was performed, and the pathology was consistent with a nonspecific vascular proliferation. Follow-up scans revealed lytic bone lesions and liver metastasis. A biopsy of the liver was performed and confirmed KHE. The decision was made to proceed with treatment with gemcitabine and docetaxel, which was discontinued due to myelotoxicity. The patient was then transferred to our institution, and a pathology review supported the diagnosis of metastatic KHE. His disease remained stable until February 2014, when he developed progression in the liver. Chemotherapy was restarted with paclitaxel, and a partial response was documented after 3 cycles. Unfortunately, disease progression occurred after 24 weeks, and subsequent treatments included prednisone, doxorubicin, interferon-α, gemcitabine, and ifosfamide, without any response. The patient developed Kasabach-Merritt phenomenon and passed away 1 week later due to a major gastrointestinal bleeding. Conclusions: This case report suggests that paclitaxel could be considered as a treatment option for advanced KHE, a rare condition for which no standard treatment exists.
case-report	CRO448167	Exophthalmos Revealing a Krukenberg Tumor: A Case Presentation and Review of the Literature Exophthalmos Revealing a Krukenberg Tumor: A Case Presentation and Review of the Literature Background: Krukenberg tumor is a well-known ovarian metastasis, usually of signet ring cell carcinoma in female patients. In the literature, there are a few documented cases of ocular metastasis in patients with Krukenberg tumor. Case Presentation: We report the case of a 35-year-old single Moroccan woman. She presented chronic pelvic pain, hematemesis and blurring of vision in the left eye. Clinical examination showed a pelvic mass and an exophthalmos with a divergent strabismus in the left eye. Pelvic and abdominal ultrasound showed a right tissular ovarian mass. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis revealed an ovarian tumor and bone metastasis. Orbital magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a hypertrophy of the left inferior rectus muscle behind the exophthalmos. Stomach endoscopy revealed an ulcerated and protruded mass of the antro-fundic junction. Histopathology and immunohistochemistry showed an infiltration of the gastric mucosa by atypically isolated signet ring cells similar to the tumor cells found in the ovarian histopathological exams. Discussion: Krukenberg tumor is an uncommon metastatic tumor of the ovary. This article provides an overview of the major pathological manifestations of Krukenberg tumor, patient characteristics, clinical and laboratory features of the disease, prognostic factors, and current knowledge about its pathogenesis.
case-report	CRO448168	Bazex Syndrome with Hypoalbuminemia and Severe Ascites Bazex Syndrome with Hypoalbuminemia and Severe Ascites Bazex syndrome is a rare paraneoplastic dermatosis. The underlying malignancy frequently is squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract or cervical lymph nodes from an unknown primary site. We report a 63-year-old man with squamous cell carcinoma of cervical lymph nodes from an unknown primary site. He developed a mass on the right side of his neck, cutaneous lesions diagnosed as Bazex syndrome, hypoalbuminemia, and severe ascites. Right neck dissection was performed. After neck dissection, not only the cutaneous lesions, but also the severe hypoalbuminemia and severe ascites were improved. Bazex syndrome may be associated with hypoalbuminemia and ascites.
case-report	CRO448212	Unresectable Recurrent Multiple Meningioma: A Case Report with Radiological Response to Somatostatin Analogues Unresectable Recurrent Multiple Meningioma: A Case Report with Radiological Response to Somatostatin Analogues Medical treatment of meningiomas is reserved for cases in which surgery and radiotherapy have failed. Given that a high percentage of meningiomas express somatostatin receptors, treatment with somatostatin analogues has been proposed. In addition, these medications have been shown to have an antiproliferative and antiangiogenic effect in vitro. To date, very few cases with clinical response and none with radiological response have been described. The case described here is the first to report a radiological response. A 76-year-old Caucasian male was first diagnosed with unresectable meningioma at age 47. The patient experienced multiple recurrences and underwent three surgeries and radiotherapy over the years from the initial diagnosis. Despite treatment, the disease continued its progression. Based on an Octreoscan positive for tumour uptake, therapy with extended-release somatostatin analogues was started. Although no clinical neurological improvement was observed, magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed a discreet but continuous radiological response over time. After &
case-report	CRO448240	Hibernoma Showing High Uniform Accumulation on an 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography Scan: A Case Report Hibernoma Showing High Uniform Accumulation on an 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography Scan: A Case Report Background: Hibernoma is a rare, benign, soft tissue tumor arising from brown fat that cannot be distinguished from other lipogenic tumors on computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. On the other hand, the image of hibernoma on 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG-PET) is different from that of other lipogenic tumors. However, fewer studies have investigated the typical features of hibernoma on PET scans. We present the case of a hibernoma that was incidentally detected on 18F-FDG-PET. Case Presentation: A 48-year-old Asian man underwent 18F-FDG-PET for routine follow-up of gastric cancer. The patient reported a painless soft mass on the upper arm that had persisted for several years. On 18F-FDG-PET, the mass showed a maximum standardized uptake value of 9.6. The mass showed high intensity on T1- and T2-weighted MRI scans, and showed focally enhanced septa after gadolinium administration. The mass was surgically resected. Histopathologically, the mass was composed of brown adipose cells characteristic of hibernoma. His postoperative course was uneventful, and there was no local recurrence at the final 24-month follow-up. Conclusion: Hibernoma showed strong uniform accumulation on 18F-FDG-PET, suggesting that 18F-FDG-PET would be a useful modality for the differential diagnosis of hibernoma versus other lipogenic tumors.
case-report	CRO448550	Inflammatory Myofibroblastic Tumor of the Urinary Bladder: A Case Report Inflammatory Myofibroblastic Tumor of the Urinary Bladder: A Case Report An inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT) is a distinctive neoplasm composed of myofibroblastic and fibroblastic spindle cells, accompanied by inflammatory infiltration of plasma cells, lymphocytes, and eosinophils. IMTs rarely occur in the urinary bladder. It is important to distinguish this tumor from other malignant spindle cell tumors. Herein, we report a patient with an IMT showing muscle invasion, who underwent a transurethral resection of the bladder tumor and, at a later date, partial cystectomy. The resected tumor specimen revealed a proliferation of spindle-shaped cells on a background of plasma cells and lymphocytes. Immunohistochemical staining showed the tumor to be positive for anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), smooth muscle actin, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Such histopathological findings were indicative of an IMT, suggesting the use of inhibitors of ALK and VEGF as pharmacotherapy.
case-report	CRO448654	Intra-Arterial Delivery of Idarubicin in Two Patients with Glioblastoma Intra-Arterial Delivery of Idarubicin in Two Patients with Glioblastoma There is no effective treatment for recurrent glioblastoma (GB) when temozolomide-based radiochemotherapy fails. In theory, intra-arterial (IA) delivery of cytotoxic agents could achieve higher drug concentrations in tumors compared to intravenous injection. Moreover, choosing a highly lipid-soluble drug could make the most of the first-pass effect. Here, we evaluated idarubicin (IDA), a lipophilic anthracycline, in an in vitro assay using four human GB cell lines and compared it with 11 other drugs previously used for the IA treatment of brain tumors. Despite impressive in vitro cytotoxicity, IA IDA did not produce a beneficial effect in 2 patients with recurrent GB.
case-report	CRO448803	Pleural Nodules and Mediastinal Lymphadenopathy in a Smoker: An Unusual Case Report Pleural Nodules and Mediastinal Lymphadenopathy in a Smoker: An Unusual Case Report The authors report a case of thoracic splenosis, which is the autotransplantation of splenic tissue into the pleural cavity. Splenosis in the chest is a rare entity and most often an incidental finding on chest computed tomography, typically showing solitary or multiple well-defined, noncalcified pleural nodules of variable size in the left hemithorax. It is important to include this benign pathology in the differential diagnosis among other, generally malignant, pleural lesions. Imaging clues to the diagnosis are absence of the spleen and/or associated rib fractures. Early identification of thoracic splenosis as a cause of pleural nodules can prevent unnecessary and risky invasive procedures, such as biopsy or surgery.
case-report	CRO448804	Maximizing Benefits from Maintenance Pemetrexed with Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy in Oligoprogressive Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Maximizing Benefits from Maintenance Pemetrexed with Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy in Oligoprogressive Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Maintenance pemetrexed offers survival benefit with well-tolerated toxicities for advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We present 3 consecutively enrolled patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC, receiving stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) for oligoprogressive disease during maintenance pemetrexed. All of them had sustained local control of thoracic oligoprogression after the SABR, while maintenance pemetrexed were kept for additionally long progression-free interval. SABR targeting oligoprogression with continued pemetrexed is an effective and safe approach to extend exposure of maintenance pemetrexed, thus maximizing the benefit from it.
case-report	CRO448990	Granulomatous Mastitis: A Rare Cause of Male Breast Lump Granulomatous Mastitis: A Rare Cause of Male Breast Lump Background: Mastitis is a common benign disorder of the female breast. It is frequently associated with tenderness, swelling and nipple discharge. We are describing an extremely rare case of an idiopathic granulomatous mastitis in the male breast. Only 1 previous case was reported. Case Report: A 29-year-old male patient presented with a hard, painless lump in the right breast of 2 weeks duration. The patient underwent surgical excision with margin. The histopathologic findings were consistent with granulomatous mastitis. The case was reported as idiopathic granulomatous mastitis after exclusion of all known causes of the disease. Conclusion: Granulomatous mastitis is rare in females and extremely rare in male breast tissue. Since this disease mimics breast cancer in its clinical picture and radiologic findings are usually not conclusive, surgical excision is recommended in all cases.
case-report	CRO478846	An Uncommon Presentation of a Metachronous Testicular Primary Nonseminoma and Seminoma Separated by Two Decades and a Testicular Cancer Literature Review An Uncommon Presentation of a Metachronous Testicular Primary Nonseminoma and Seminoma Separated by Two Decades and a Testicular Cancer Literature Review Introduction: Testicular cancer is the most common malignancy in men aged 15–40 years [Bols et al.: Philadelphia, Wolters Kluwer, Lippincott Williams &
case-report	CRO479224	Near Complete Response in a Patient with Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma Treated with Brentuximab Vedotin Concurrent with Radiation Therapy Near Complete Response in a Patient with Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma Treated with Brentuximab Vedotin Concurrent with Radiation Therapy Brentuximab vedotin, an antibody drug conjugate that delivers monomethyl auristatin E into CD-30 expressing cells is FDA approved for the treatment of patients with Hodgkin lymphoma after the failure of autologous stem cell transplantation or at least 2 prior multi-agent chemotherapy regiments. This approval was based on a study that showed an overall response rate of 75% and complete remission in 34%. We present a case of a 24-year-old male with classical nodular sclerosing Hodgkin lymphoma who achieved near complete remission following 5 cycles of brentuximab concurrent with ISRT (involved site radiation therapy) following progression of first-line ABVD (Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) and subsequent second-line ICE (ifosfamide, carboplatin, etoposide) chemotherapy. This case not only reiterates the efficacy of brentuximab vedotin in the third-line setting but introduces the role of and need for further clinical trials of combined radiotherapy with brentuximab in Hodgkin lymphoma patients following failure of second-line options.
case-report	CRO479677	Nedaplatin as a Single-Agent Chemotherapy May Support Palliative Therapy for Patients with Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma: A Case Report Nedaplatin as a Single-Agent Chemotherapy May Support Palliative Therapy for Patients with Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma: A Case Report Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is a rare form of adenocarcinoma, which is a broad term describing any cancer that begins in the glandular tissues. It can be found in the head and neck. We report a patient with recurrent ACC arising from the submandibular gland, treated with 100 mg/m2 nedaplatin every 4 weeks. Although our patient’s lactate dehydrogenase levels, which is produced by ACC, showed a rising trend throughout the treatment, the level decreased for approximately 2 weeks immediately after administration of nedaplatin every 4 weeks. Thus, there is a possibility that the agent may be effective. Complications such as anorexia and nausea were observed, but they were tolerated and manageable. Nedaplatin may be considered as a supportive agent during palliative therapy for patients with ACC. More clinical trials regarding nedaplatin are necessary, as this study may indicate that a medical approach works well for ACC.
case-report	CRO479958	Nivolumab-Induced Myocarditis Concomitant with Myasthenia Gravis Nivolumab-Induced Myocarditis Concomitant with Myasthenia Gravis We report a 69-year-old female patient with advanced lung cancer who developed myocarditis concomitant with myasthenia gravis (MG), also known as “Herzmyasthenie,” after 3 cycles of nivolumab administration. Her initial symptoms were general malaise and double vision. However, her myocarditis deteriorated rapidly the following day, necessitating a temporary pacemaker and noninvasive positive pressure ventilation in the intensive care unit. Immunohistochemical examination of a myocardial biopsy suggested an immune response on the basis of HLA associations. The patient also developed impaired adduction of her left eye and elevated serum levels of acetylcholine receptor antibody, suggesting the onset of MG. Her condition gradually improved after immediate methylprednisolone pulse therapy. This case of nivolumab-induced “Herzmyasthenie” highlights the need to be aware that fulminant myocarditis might occur at the same time as MG during treatment with anti-programmed cell death-1 monoclonal antibodies.
case-report	CRO479959	Recurrence of Ovarian Cancer with Placental Metastasis: A Case Report Recurrence of Ovarian Cancer with Placental Metastasis: A Case Report A 39-year-old primiparous Japanese female was admitted to the obstetrical emergency department of our hospital because of respiratory distress resulting from a large amount of pleural effusion, soon after a caesarean delivery (CD) at another hospital. While she was undergoing the CD, a giant ovarian tumour was identified. However, the tumour could not be removed at that facility and she was transferred to our hospital. Three days after the CD, a left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed with the purpose of controlling pleural and peritoneal effusions. Based on her past treatment history and the information gathered from this surgery, recurrence of ovarian cancer was considered the final diagnosis. Earlier, at the age of 37 years, she had been diagnosed with stage IC ovarian adenocarcinoma arising from a mature cystic teratoma detected after a right salpingo-oophorectomy. These kinds of situations of accidental detection of recurrent advanced ovarian cancer in a newly pregnant patient in the emergency department are rare. Amongst them, we have identified an extremely rare case showing placental metastasis. The important lesson learnt from this case report is that detailed medical interviews and physical examinations are crucial when a pregnant woman visits a hospital without a letter of referral, especially in the third trimester of pregnancy.
case-report	CRO479960	"Different Response to Nivolumab in a Patient with Synchronous Double Primary Carcinomas of Hypopharyngeal Cancer and Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Different Response to Nivolumab in a Patient with Synchronous Double Primary Carcinomas of Hypopharyngeal Cancer and Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Nivolumab is a humanized IgG4 and programmed death 1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibody that has demonstrated antitumor efficacy in clinical trials of various malignant tumors including non-small-cell lung cancer and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). However, patients with multiple primary malignancies were excluded in clinical trials. Thus, the efficacy of nivolumab in such patients has not been revealed yet. The programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression level is currently the main predictive biomarker of PD-1 inhibitors in various types of solid tumors and hematological malignancies. Here we describe a patient with synchronous double primary carcinomas of hypopharyngeal SCC and lung adenocarcinoma who exhibited different responses to nivolumab. After nivolumab treatment, hypopharyngeal SCC with moderate PD-L1 positivity by immunohistochemical staining showed a remarkable response; conversely, nivolumab was not effective against lung adenocarcinoma, which was negative for PD-L1. This suggests that tumors with different PD-L1 expressions may exhibit different responses to PD-1 inhibitors when multiple primary malignancies are present within one patient."
case-report	CRO480076	Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Masquerading as Idiopathic Chronic Pancreatitis with Delayed Diagnosis Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Masquerading as Idiopathic Chronic Pancreatitis with Delayed Diagnosis Pancreatic cancer carries poor prognosis. Establishing the diagnosis early could help in improving outcome. We are presenting a case of pancreatic cancer with delayed diagnosis. Our 60-year-old patient underwent multiple endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsies with no evidence of malignancy. He had normal molecular tumor biomarkers. The patient needed 8 months to receive the diagnosis and initiate the treatment. There are no specific guidelines regarding choice of tissue sampling modalities in such cases.
case-report	CRO480292	Dramatic Response with Single-Agent Ibrutinib in Multiply Relapsed Marginal Zone Lymphoma with MYD88L265P Mutation Dramatic Response with Single-Agent Ibrutinib in Multiply Relapsed Marginal Zone Lymphoma with MYD88L265P Mutation The B-cell receptor signaling pathway is important in the lymphomagenesis of many lymphomas, including marginal zone lymphoma (MZL). Herein we describe a case of extranodal MZL refractory to multiple lines of therapy. The presence of an IgM paraprotein prompted further evaluation, and the patient was found to have an MYD88L265P mutation. Treatment with ibrutinib led to a dramatic response with prompt resolution of symptoms and significant improvement in measurable sites of disease. The excellent response to ibrutinib in our patient with MYD88L265P-mutated refractory MZL supports a biological rationale for its use.
case-report	CRO480493	Burned-Out Testicular Cancer: Really a Different History Burned-Out Testicular Cancer: Really a Different History Two or more histological types characterize more than 60% of testicular germ cell tumors (GCTs). Burned-out testicular tumor refers to partial or complete histological regression of the primary testicular lesions. The most frequent GCT type involved in this kind of histological regression is choriocarcinoma, followed by embryonal carcinoma. To our knowledge, there are no cases of the burned-out phenomenon in teratoma. We report a case of a 19-year-old man presenting to our institute with a right testicular lesion, evidence of mediastinal and abdominal lymph node metastasis, and high levels of GCT serum biomarkers. After orchiectomy, the histopathological examination showed a mixed GCT: mature teratoma, immature teratoma, and histological features of testicular cancer regression (burned-out phenomenon). The patient underwent first-line chemotherapy (BEP regimen) which resulted in a complete instrumental and biochemical response after 4 cycles. Teratoma is considered a less aggressive type of GCT. In this particular case, metastatic disease seems to result from non-germ cell components which underwent early spontaneous regression.
case-report	CRO480696	Spontaneous Remission of Severe Systemic Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis with Bladder Involvement: A Case Study Spontaneous Remission of Severe Systemic Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis with Bladder Involvement: A Case Study Background: The clinical presentation of Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is heterogeneous ranging from single-organ involvement to systemic disease causing substantial morbidity and mortality. We describe an unusual course of severe multisystem LCH with spontaneous remission. Case Presentation: We report on a 45-year-old Caucasian woman with cervical cancer, FIGO stage IVB. Five months after the end of combined radiochemotherapy and brachytherapy, the patient was readmitted because of severe dysuria. Sterile leukocyturia was seen, and cystoscopy revealed only 3 unspecific small mucosal lesions compatible with postradiation cystitis. Incidentally, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the body showed diffuse micronodular and cystic lesions in lungs and hypodense lesions in the liver. Biopsies revealed infiltrations of CD1a and Langerin (CD207)-positive histiocytes in the lung, liver, and bladder. Additionally, positron emission tomography-CT (PET-CT) was compatible with bone involvement. Retrospective analysis revealed that the increase in alkaline phosphatase might have been a surrogate of bone marrow infiltration with osseous activity. Repeated pneumothoraces occurred, and only one course of vinblastine-prednisolone could be applied. Despite ongoing tobacco consumption and without further therapy, PET-CT showed considerable remission 2 months later. However, despite stable remission, documented by serial PET and conventional CT scans, persistent infiltration of the bladder by Langerhans histiocytes could still be demonstrated 17 months later. Unfortunately, cervical cancer recurred and progressed. Conclusion: Multisystem LCH may rapidly occur, may be oligosymptomatic and, even in high-risk cases, remission without specific therapy might occur. Whether alkaline phosphatase might be a surrogate to monitor osseous disease activity has to be further explored.
case-report	CRO480698	Liquid Biopsy Prevents Inaccurate Her2 Status Determination by in situ Hybridization in a Patient with Invasive Ductal Adenocarcinoma of the Breast: Case Report Liquid Biopsy Prevents Inaccurate Her2 Status Determination by in situ Hybridization in a Patient with Invasive Ductal Adenocarcinoma of the Breast: Case Report Utilization of circulating tumor DNA as a novel and noninvasive test for diagnosis confirmation, therapy selection, and cancer surveillance is a rapidly growing area of interest. In the wake of FDA approval of a liquid biopsy test, it is important for clinicians to acknowledge the obvious clinical utility of liquid biopsy for cancer management throughout the course of the disease. This case report describes a female with invasive ductal adenocarcinoma of the breast, where liquid biopsy was instrumental for her cancer characterization and personalized therapy selection.
case-report	CRO481194	Successful Treatment of Cardiac Angiosarcoma Associated with Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation with Nab-Paclitaxel: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Successful Treatment of Cardiac Angiosarcoma Associated with Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation with Nab-Paclitaxel: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Angiosarcoma of the heart is an uncommon soft tissue sarcoma. A few cases of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) associated with angiosarcoma occurring in various organs, but not the heart, have been reported. Although taxane is commonly used in the treatment of metastatic angiosarcoma, data on the efficacy of nab-paclitaxel for angiosarcoma are limited. Here, we report probably the first case of a patient with primary cardiac angiosarcoma with coexisting DIC who was successfully treated with nab-paclitaxel. A 62-year-old female with chief complaints of nausea and shortness of breath was diagnosed as having cardiac angiosarcoma with liver metastases. Four months after the resection of her primary tumor, the hepatic metastatic lesions progressed rapidly accompanied by new metastatic lesions in the right iliac bone and signs of DIC. She received nab-paclitaxel as first-line chemotherapy. A response of stable disease was achieved after 2 treatment cycles and DIC was successfully controlled for at least 4 months. This report suggests potential utility of nab-paclitaxel for angiosarcoma complicated with DIC. We also review the literature for all cases of angiosarcoma with DIC reported so far.
review-article	CTO308892	Disparate Companions: Tissue Engineering Meets Cancer Research Disparate Companions: Tissue Engineering Meets Cancer Research Recreating an environment that supports and promotes fundamental homeostatic mechanisms is a significant challenge in tissue engineering. Optimizing cell survival, proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and angiogenesis, and providing suitable stromal support and signalling cues are keys to successfully generating clinically useful tissues. Interestingly, those components are often subverted in the cancer setting, where aberrant angiogenesis, cellular proliferation, cell signalling and resistance to apoptosis drive malignant growth. In contrast to tissue engineering, identifying and inhibiting those pathways is a major challenge in cancer research. The recent discovery of adult tissue-specific stem cells has had a major impact on both tissue engineering and cancer research. The unique properties of these cells and their role in tissue and organ repair and regeneration hold great potential for engineering tissue-specific constructs. The emerging body of evidence implicating stem cells and progenitor cells as the source of oncogenic transformation prompts caution when using these cells for tissue-engineering purposes. While tissue engineering and cancer research may be considered as opposed fields of research with regard to their proclaimed goals, the compelling overlap in fundamental pathways underlying these processes suggests that cross-disciplinary research will benefit both fields. In this review article, tissue engineering and cancer research are brought together and explored with regard to discoveries that may be of mutual benefit.
research-article	CTO371342	Hypoxia Induces an Undifferentiated Phenotype of Oral Keratinocytes in vitro Hypoxia Induces an Undifferentiated Phenotype of Oral Keratinocytes in vitro The aim of this study was to determine the effects of hypoxia on the proliferating potential and phenotype of primary human oral keratinocytes cultured at ambient oxygen tension (20%) or at different levels of hypoxia (2 and 0.5% O2). The effects of oxygen tensions on cellular metabolic activity, cell proliferation, clonogenicity and proliferation heterogeneity were measured. Cell cycle profiles were analyzed by a fluorescent-activated cell sorter, and p21WAF1/CIP1 expression in the G&
review-article	CTO469703	Biofunctional Ionic-Doped Calcium Phosphates: Silk Fibroin Composites for Bone Tissue Engineering Scaffolding Biofunctional Ionic-Doped Calcium Phosphates: Silk Fibroin Composites for Bone Tissue Engineering Scaffolding The treatment and regeneration of bone defects caused by traumatism or diseases have not been completely addressed by current therapies. Lately, advanced tools and technologies have been successfully developed for bone tissue regeneration. Functional scaffolding materials such as biopolymers and bioresorbable fillers have gained particular attention, owing to their ability to promote cell adhesion, proliferation, and extracellular matrix production, which promote new bone growth. Here, we present novel biofunctional scaffolds for bone regeneration composed of silk fibroin (SF) and β-tricalcium phosphate (β-TCP) and incorporating Sr, Zn, and Mn, which were successfully developed using salt-leaching followed by a freeze-drying technique. The scaffolds presented a suitable pore size, porosity, and high interconnectivity, adequate for promoting cell attachment and proliferation. The degradation behavior and compressive mechanical strengths showed that SF/ionic-doped TCP scaffolds exhibit improved characteristics for bone tissue engineering when compared with SF scaffolds alone. The in vitro bioactivity assays using a simulated body fluid showed the growth of an apatite layer. Furthermore, in vitro assays using human adipose-derived stem cells presented different effects on cell proliferation/differentiation when varying the doping agents in the biofunctional scaffolds. The incorporation of Zn into the scaffolds led to improved proliferation, while the Sr- and Mn-doped scaffolds presented higher osteogenic potential as demonstrated by DNA quantification and alkaline phosphatase activity. The combination of Sr with Zn led to an influence on cell proliferation and osteogenesis when compared with single ions. Our results indicate that biofunctional ionic-doped composite scaffolds are good candidates for further in vivo studies on bone tissue regeneration.
review-article	CTO477135	Neuronal Differentiation Modulated by Polymeric Membrane Properties Neuronal Differentiation Modulated by Polymeric Membrane Properties In this study, different collagen-blend membranes were successfully constructed by blending collagen with chitosan (CHT) or poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) to enhance their properties and thus create new biofunctional materials with great potential use for neuronal tissue engineering and regeneration. Collagen blending strongly affected membrane properties in the following ways: (i) it improved the surface hydrophilicity of both pure CHT and PLGA membranes, (ii) it reduced the stiffness of CHT membranes, but (iii) it did not modify the good mechanical properties of PLGA membranes. Then, we investigated the effect of the different collagen concentrations on the neuronal behavior of the membranes developed. Morphological observations, immunocytochemistry, and morphometric measures demonstrated that the membranes developed, especially CHT/Col30, PLGA, and PLGA/Col1, provided suitable microenvironments for neuronal growth owing to their enhanced properties. The most consistent neuronal differentiation was obtained in neurons cultured on PLGA-based membranes, where a well-developed neuronal network was achieved due to their improved mechanical properties. Our findings suggest that tensile strength and elongation at break are key material parameters that have potential influence on both axonal elongation and neuronal structure and organization, which are of fundamental importance for the maintenance of efficient neuronal growth. Hence, our study has provided new insights regarding the effects of membrane mechanical properties on neuronal behavior, and thus it may help to design and improve novel instructive biomaterials for neuronal tissue engineering.
review-article	CTO493162	Oxygen Regulation in Development: Lessons from Embryogenesis towards Tissue Engineering Oxygen Regulation in Development: Lessons from Embryogenesis towards Tissue Engineering Oxygen is a vital source of energy necessary to sustain and complete embryonic development. Not only is oxygen the driving force for many cellular functions and metabolism, but it is also involved in regulating stem cell fate, morphogenesis, and organogenesis. Low oxygen levels are the naturally preferred microenvironment for most processes during early development and mainly drive proliferation. Later on, more oxygen and also nutrients are needed for organogenesis and morphogenesis. Therefore, it is critical to maintain oxygen levels within a narrow range as required during development. Modulating oxygen tensions is performed via oxygen homeostasis mainly through the function of hypoxia-inducible factors. Through the function of these factors, oxygen levels are sensed and regulated in different tissues, starting from their embryonic state to adult development. To be able to mimic this process in a tissue engineering setting, it is important to understand the role and levels of oxygen in each developmental stage, from embryonic stem cell differentiation to organogenesis and morphogenesis. Taking lessons from native tissue microenvironments, researchers have explored approaches to control oxygen tensions such as hemoglobin-based, perfluorocarbon-based, and oxygen-generating biomaterials, within synthetic tissue engineering scaffolds and organoids, with the aim of overcoming insufficient or nonuniform oxygen levels and nutrient supply.
systematic-review	CUR323240	"The Physiological and Anesthetic Considerations in Octogenarians Undergoing Laparoscopic Radical Nephrectomy The Physiological and Anesthetic Considerations in Octogenarians Undergoing Laparoscopic Radical Nephrectomy As the worldwide population ages, an increasing number of elderly patients with renal malignancy are considered for laparoscopic radical renal surgery. We present a systematic review of physiological and anesthetic considerations in octogenarians undergoing this procedure. We highlight the importance of overall assessment of risk has been made; discussion must take place to devise the safest perioperative course between anesthetist, surgeon, patient, and where appropriate an interventionist. Age itself should not deter this type of surgery; however it should invoke the need for special perioperative planning and care."
case-report	CUR442869	Predictive Ability of Preoperative CT Scan in Determining Whether the Adrenal Gland is Spared at Radical Nephrectomy Predictive Ability of Preoperative CT Scan in Determining Whether the Adrenal Gland is Spared at Radical Nephrectomy Introduction: The aim of this study was to assess whether preoperative multiple detector computed tomography (MDCT) accurately predicts adrenal involvement for patients undergoing non-adrenal sparing radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma. Methods and Materials: A retrospective observational study based on a composite patient population of two university teaching hospitals who underwent radical nephrectomy. Sensitivity, specificity, overall accuracy, positive and negative predictive values and likelihood ratios were calculated from radiological reports. Results: Total 579 patients underwent radical nephrectomy, of which 199 (34.4%) patients underwent a non-adrenal sparing radical nephrectomy, in which 128 (64.3%) were male and 118 (59.3%) were left side tumors. Mean tumor size was 8.2 cm (range 1.4-20cm). MDCT was found to have a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 95.2% for identifying adrenal invasion. Total 179 patients (89.9%) had a radiographically normal ipsilateral adrenal gland, of which none were found to have adrenal involvement. Therefore, the negative predictive value of preoperative cross-sectional imaging for identification of adrenal involvement was 100%. Conclusion: Cross- sectional MDCT imaging accurately predicts adrenal involvement and the decision to remove or spare the adrenal gland should be made preoperative planning regardless of tumour size or location at the time of multi-disciplinary discussion unless there is intraoperative evidence of adrenal invasion.
case-report	CUR447133	Pyoderma Gangrenosum in the Urologist Clinic Pyoderma Gangrenosum in the Urologist Clinic Pyoderma gangrenosum is a rare non-infectious skin disorder. It is often associated with systemic diseases, like the inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatological disease and (hematological) malignancy. The diagnosis is affirmed through a process of elimination and is principally based on clinical presentation and course. We present a 59-year-old male with T-cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia and pyoderma gangrenosum of penis and scrotum. Finally the patient was successfully treated with systemic prednisolone.
case-report	CUR447134	Oligometastatic Growing Teratoma Syndrome: A Case for an Aggressive Surgical Approach Oligometastatic Growing Teratoma Syndrome: A Case for an Aggressive Surgical Approach Growing teratoma syndrome is an infrequent presentation of testicular cancer. We present a case of growing teratoma syndrome in a patient who initially presented with clinical stage I nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumor, who subsequently developed large volume oligometastases to the retroperitoneum, thorax, and thigh. Despite two regimens of chemotherapy, his disease progressed. Complete surgical extirpation of all gross tumors confirmed mature teratoma. An aggressive surgical approach, including postchemotherapy resection of all known metastatic sites, can provide long-term disease-free survival.
case-report	CUR447135	Bladder Leiomyosarcoma: A Rare, but Aggressive Diagnosis Bladder Leiomyosarcoma: A Rare, but Aggressive Diagnosis It remains evident in the literature that leiomyosarcomas of the bladder have continuously been regarded as highly aggressive tumors associated with a poor prognosis. Immediate surgical therapy by radical cystectomy with wide margins is warranted as an effective treatment modality and has been associated with longer survival rates. Herein, we present the case of a high-grade leiomyosarcoma primarily treated with anterior pelvic exenteration and urinary diversion.
review-article	CUR447137	Rupture of Testicular Tunica Albuginea: A Urological Emergency Rupture of Testicular Tunica Albuginea: A Urological Emergency Background: Road traffic accident, commonly enunciated as “RTA”, is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. However, for a urologist, an “RTA” could imply “Rupture of the testicular Tunica Albuginea”, with equivalent, if not higher psychosocial, anatomical and hormonal morbidity and/or mortality. Blunt or penetrating trauma, or degloving injuries, may lead to an RTA, with extrusion of the testicular seminiferous tubules, mandating an early diagnosis and prompt intervention, in order to prevent future complications. Method: A thorough “pubmed” search was conducted with the terms “testicular rupture” and “tunica albuginea rupture”, and all English language articles with these terms in title or abstract, were included in this review. Results/ Conclusion: The following review highlights this urological emergency as an important differential for an “acute scrotum” and provides an insight into the currently available literature documenting testicular ruptures, as well as the various diagnostic modalities and management practices. Additional food for thought remains the need for long term follow up of these patients, in order to assess for hypogonadism or infertility as well as the need to understand the role of the “blood-testis barrier” and possible implications of its breach, with auto antibody production.
meta-analysis	CUR447146	Neuroendocrine Testicular Tumors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Neuroendocrine Testicular Tumors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Purpose: The purpose of this study is to study the main epidemiological, clinical, para clinical, pathological, therapeutic, and evolutionary features of patients with testicular neuroendocrine tumors (TNET). Materials and Methods: Nine case series and sixteen case reports were identified by searching PubMed database and qualified for inclusion in this study. We added the data of one case treated in the department of urology in Habib Bourguiba Hospital in Sfax, to the published cases. Results: A total of 132 cases were collected. Median age at diagnosis was 39 years old (range 10- 83 years). The most common presenting symptom was either a testicular mass or a swelling in 38.46% of cases. Carcinoid syndrome was documented in 10.60% of patients. The clinical examination revealed a palpable mass in 44.70% of patients. This mass was painless and firm in most cases. Serum tumor markers (β-gonadotrophine chorionique humaine, α-feto protein, and lactate dehydrogenase) were within normal limits in all patients except in one case. Most testicular neuroendocrine tumors (76.52%) were primary and pure. The tumors were positive for chromogranin (100%), synaptophysin (100%) and cytokeratin (93.10%). Metastases were detected at time of diagnosis in eight cases (6.06%). The main treatment was radical orchiectomy performed in 127 patients (96.21%). The 5-year overall survival rate was 78.70% and the 5-year specific survival rate was 84.30%. Conclusion: The diagnosis of testicular carcinoids is based on the immunohistochemistry study. The treatment of choice for these tumors is radical orchiectomy. Somatostatin analogues were reported to be effective in patients with carcinoid syndrome.
meta-analysis	CUR447153	"Is Health-Related Quality of Life after Radical Cystectomy Using Validated Questionnaires Really Better in Patients with Ileal Orthotopic Neobladder Compared to Ileal Conduit: A Meta-Analysis of Retrospective Comparative Studies Is Health-Related Quality of Life after Radical Cystectomy Using Validated Questionnaires Really Better in Patients with Ileal Orthotopic Neobladder Compared to Ileal Conduit: A Meta-Analysis of Retrospective Comparative Studies Introduction: From the most recent systematic revision of the literature, an orthotopic neobladder would seem to show marginally better health related quality of life (HR-QoL) scores compared with an ileal conduit. The aim of this study was to review all relevant published studies about the comparison between ileal orthotopic neobladder (IONB) and ileal conduit using validated HR-QoL questionnaires. Materials and Methods: Studies were identified by searching multiple literature databases. Data were synthesized using meta-analytic methods conformed to the PRISMA statement. Results: The literature search identified 10 papers; pooled effect sizes of combined quality of life outcomes for ileal conduit versus IONB showed a significantly better HR-QoL in patients with IONB (Hedges' g = 0.278; p = 0.000);. The present study has an important limitation due to the type of the analyzed comparative studies, all retrospective and not randomized. Conclusion: This meta-analysis of not-randomized, retrospective comparative studies on the impact of ileal conduit versus IONB on HR-QoL showed a significant advantage of IONB subgroups."
systematic-review	DDI268134	Collagenous and Lymphocytic Colitis: Systematic Review and Update of the Literature Collagenous and Lymphocytic Colitis: Systematic Review and Update of the Literature Collagenous and lymphocytic colitis are well-described conditions causing chronic watery diarrhoea. A peak incidence from 60 to 70 years of age with a female predominance mainly in collagenous colitis is observed. Both conditions are characterised by a (near) normal colonoscopy, but with specific histologic findings on colonic biopsies. Histopathologically, both conditions are characterised by distinct epithelial abnormalities and a dense lymphoplasmocytic infiltrate. Distinct features consist of a characteristic collagen band deposition in the subepithelial layer in collagenous colitis and a markedly increased number of intra-epithelial lymphocytes in lymphocytic colitis. Although most cases are idiopathic, certain drugs can induce microscopic colitis. In addition, either condition can be associated with coeliac disease. For a long time patients with microscopic colitis were treated with non-specific anti-diarrhoeal agents, anti-inflammatory agents such as mesalazine, or systemic steroids, but with disappointing results. Bismuth subsalicylate was reported to be effective in a small controlled series of patients with collagenous colitis. Now, randomised controlled trials have shown the effectiveness of budesonide over placebo in collagenous colitis and more recently in lymphocytic colitis. The histologic response is variable, but a decrease in the subepithelial collagen layer and a decrease in the lymphoplasmocytic infiltrate in the lamina propria is observed in about half of the patients. In general, patients respond within 2 weeks with no major side effects. However, relapse is common (63–80% of patients) when budesonide is stopped. Longer-term treatment is effective but does not seem to reduce relapse rates upon discontinuation.
systematic-review	DDI331119	The Missed Colorectal Cancer Problem The Missed Colorectal Cancer Problem Background/Aims: Colonoscopy is currently regarded as the gold standard for the detection of polyps and cancers in the colon and rectum, and is the preferred method of screening for colorectal cancer in Europe and the USA. However, evidence shows that polyps and other lesions can be missed during colonoscopy due to several reasons. Methods: An unsystematic review of the literature concerning the issues of missed colorectal cancers and interval cancers during colonoscopy was performed and the most important articles described. Results: According to the literature there are various reasons for interval and/or missed colorectal cancers: incomplete bowel cleaning, incomplete colonoscopy, short withdrawal time, incomplete resection of adenomas, rapid tumor progression, sessile serrated adenomas and the examiner him- or herself. Conclusion: For the minimization of missed neoplasias and even cancers it is necessary to perform screening colonoscopy after an optimal bowel preparation. Furthermore, colonoscopy should be performed in an ‘optimal setting’ with adequate withdrawal time and complete resection of all polypoid lesions by experienced examiners followed by an adequate histological work-up including the knowledge about sessile serrated adenomas.
systematic-review	DDI335916	Differences in Early Outcomes after Open or Laparoscopic Surgery: What Is the Evidence? Differences in Early Outcomes after Open or Laparoscopic Surgery: What Is the Evidence? Laparoscopic surgery has been widely studied in colorectal cancer and its feasibility and safety have been proven to the extent that in the UK a national laparoscopic colorectal surgery programme has been established. The advantages of laparoscopic surgery have been studied less systematically in diverticular disease. Several prospective uncontrolled studies have demonstrated that laparoscopic surgery for diverticular disease is feasible with low morbidity and mortality rates. A large population study in the USA has demonstrated elective laparoscopic surgery for diverticular disease to have reduced hospital stay by 1 day, and a lower rate of intra-operative and post-operative complications over open surgery. Some of the reported differences may be attributable to selection bias of more complex cases to open surgery. A Cochrane systematic review examining 11 non-randomized and 1 randomized study showed laparoscopic surgery to be feasible in diverticular disease, although there might be a higher minor complications rate in laparoscopic resections. Attention has been focused on surgical techniques as means to reduce complications. There is a belief that preservation of the inferior mesenteric and superior rectal artery protects from anastomotic leak, but a study from the USA looking into that point did not find a difference. The application of hand-assisted laparoscopy seems to help cope with complex diverticular masses and colovesical fistulas. New hybrid techniques incorporating specimen extraction via rectum may reduce complications further. Single incision laparoscopic surgery has recently been shown to be feasible. Although minimally invasive techniques appear superior in terms of early outcomes than open surgery the choice of minimally invasive technique seems to be less relevant to outcomes if accompanied by an appropriate level of surgical experience and expertise. Patient-related factors such as comorbidities or degree of disease complexity are more likely to be related to complication rates.
systematic-review	DDI338126	The Role of Anti(myco)bacterial Interventions in the Management of IBD: Is There Evidence at All? The Role of Anti(myco)bacterial Interventions in the Management of IBD: Is There Evidence at All? Background/Aims: The etiology of IBD is unknown but may relate to an unidentified bacterial pathogen or an immunological reaction to gut microbiota. Antibiotics have therefore been proposed as a therapy for Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). The aim of this review was to compel the evidence for the use of antibiotics in the treatment of IBD. Methods: We performed a systematic review of the literature regarding the use of antibiotics for inducing or maintaining remission in IBD. Results: Current data are conflicting, but a recent systematic review of randomized controlled trials has shown a statistically significant effect of antibiotics being superior to placebo for active, perianal and quiescent CD and for active UC. These data have been poorly translated in clinical practice and the place of antibiotics is restricted to certain specific situations in the international guidelines. This is first linked to the difficulties in interpreting clinical trials because of their heterogeneity in study design, endpoints, type of antibiotic and concomitant therapies. The exception to this is the use of either ciprofloxacin or metronidazole for treating CD perianal fistulas. Conclusion: The pathology of CD, the likely primary and known secondary pathogens in this disease and the successful responses in animal models all plead for new trials of antibiotics in IBD. This is a call to select patients more carefully, and to continue antibiotics for longer than is customary. Beside antibiotics, new therapeutic approaches that can balance gut dysbiosis should be tested.
systematic-review	DDI347178	Pancreatic Cancer: Advances in Treatment, Results and Limitations Pancreatic Cancer: Advances in Treatment, Results and Limitations Background/Aims: Pancreatic cancer remains a therapeutic challenge. Surgery is the only treatment with the chance of cure. The aim of this review is to summarize the present state-of-the-art surgical procedures in pancreatic cancer. Methods: The current literature was reviewed with regard to surgical approaches in pancreatic cancer. A focus was put on high-quality studies, reviews, systematic reviews and meta-analyses as well as recruiting studies highlighting innovative approaches. Results: Today, standard resections can be performed with mortality rates below 5% in specialized high-volume institutions. Extended approaches for locally advanced cancer are technically feasible, including venous resections, multivisceral resections and recurrence surgery. They can be carried out without increased morbidity and mortality, are not compromised by higher R1 or N+ rates, and can improve survival. Arterial tumor invasion is still regarded controversially and is oncologically questionable. All surgical approaches should be part of interdisciplinary multimodal treatment concepts to improve the patients' prognosis. Conclusion: Surgery is the backbone of pancreatic cancer treatment in localized disease. Extended approaches are feasible in centers and show - except for arterial resections - good long-term outcome. Interdisciplinary therapy is an essential supplementation of all surgical approaches.
systematic-review	DDI367835	"Role of Immunosuppressives in Special Situations: Perianal Disease and Postoperative Period Role of Immunosuppressives in Special Situations: Perianal Disease and Postoperative Period Complex perianal disease is associated with poor outcome and requires early effective therapy. Corticosteroids are not effective in perianal fistulising Crohn's disease, and antibiotics, immunosuppressants and anti-TNF therapy are required. It is important to consider combined medical surgical therapy after accurate imaging using an MRI scan of the pelvis. Drainage of any abscess at examination under anaesthesia and seton insertion are important before introduction of immunosuppressants and anti-TNF therapy. Long-term follow up of patients in a single centre reported responders to azathioprine having a reduced risk of perianal surgery (OR = 0.36; 95% CI: 0.27-0.46), but complex perianal fistulising Crohn's disease generally requires combination therapy with anti-TNF and azathioprine. Patients with recent perianal disease without fistulae and aged 40 years or older respond better to azathioprine monotherapy. Response to monotherapy with azathioprine is often slow and incomplete. In the recent GETAID study of early administration of azathioprine versus conventional management in patients at high risk of disabling disease, a higher cumulative proportion of patients in the azathioprine group were free of perianal surgery. In patients not responding to anti-TNF therapy, thalidomide or tacrolimus may be considered. Hyperbaric oxygen may be used as adjunctive therapy where available. The role of adipose-derived stem cell injection requires further long-term studies. In prevention of post-operative recurrence of Crohn's disease, azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine had a favourable incremental cost-effectiveness ratio compared with no prophylactic therapy up to 1 year. In a Cochrane systematic review, azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine was associated with a significantly reduced risk of clinical recurrence [RR = 0.59, 95% CI: 0.38-0.92, number needed to treat (NNT) = 7] and severe endoscopic recurrence (RR = 0.6, 95% CI: 0.44-0.92, NNT = 4). Individual studies of prevention of post-operative recurrence using azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine have shown only modest benefit. In patients at high risk of relapse after surgical resection, anti-TNF therapy may be beneficial, but more data is required from ongoing studies. Strategies to prevent post-operative recurrence in Crohn's disease are evolving but need further refinement."
meta-analysis	DDI471874	"Immunosuppressive Agents for the Treatment of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Immunosuppressive Agents for the Treatment of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: Currently, there are no effective therapeutic agents for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). This study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficiency of immunosuppressive agents (IAs) for the treatment of PSC. Methods: The literatures were searched using the following keywords singly or in combination: PSC, treatments, IAs. The primary outcome was defined as the need for liver transplantation or mortality. Results: Two hundred sixty six patients from 7 eligible studies were analyzed. IAs had no remarkable effects on the rate of mortality or liver transplantation (relative risk, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.58-1.62, p = 0.92). Subgroup analyses showed no significant effect of IAs co-administration therapy (IAs co-administered with ursodeoxycholic acid, IA co-administered with IA; RR 1.41, 95% CI 0.40-4.95, p = 0.60). IAs caused adverse events (AEs) such as diarrhea, abdominal pain, and pruritus (RR 1.81, 95% CI 1.07-3.07, p = 0.03). IAs therapy did not significantly improve markers of liver function except for aspartate transaminase (weighted mean difference -9.76, 95% CI -12.92 to -6.6, p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: IAs administrated as either monotherapy or combination therapy do not reduce the risk of mortality or liver transplantation. IAs monotherapy is associated with AEs."
meta-analysis	DDI480149	Additional Benefits of Routine Drugs on Gastrointestinal Cancer: Statins, Metformin, and Proton Pump Inhibitors Additional Benefits of Routine Drugs on Gastrointestinal Cancer: Statins, Metformin, and Proton Pump Inhibitors Background: Commonly used medications including statins, metformin, and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) effectively reduce the risk of esophageal, gastric, and colorectal cancer (CRC). Summary: A number of observational studies and meta-analyses have shown that long-term statin use significantly reduces the incidence of gastrointestinal (GI) cancer. Moreover, statin use after GI cancer diagnosis has been significantly associated with better prognosis in large-scale cohort studies. Metformin was rigorously evaluated in a population-based study and meta-analysis, and was found to have an unexpected benefit in the prevention and prolonged survival of CRC patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In contrast, few studies have demonstrated the chemopreventive effect of metformin for esophageal and gastric cancer. Recent observational studies have demonstrated that PPIs effectively reduce the progression of nondysplastic Barrett's esophagus into esophageal adenocarcinoma in a dose-dependent manner. However, the association between chronic PPI use and CRC or gastric cancer risk is still controversial. It was expected that these 3 routinely used medicines would show a synergistic effect with conventional systemic chemotherapy in advanced GI cancers. However, recent phase III studies failed to show significantly better outcomes. Key Messages: Further studies are needed to identify “additional” anticancer effects of these commonly used medicines.
meta-analysis	DDI481342	"Clinical Significance of O-6-Methylguanine-DNA-Methyltransferase Promoter Methylation in Patients with Esophageal Carcinoma: A Systematic Meta-Analysis Clinical Significance of O-6-Methylguanine-DNA-Methyltransferase Promoter Methylation in Patients with Esophageal Carcinoma: A Systematic Meta-Analysis Background: The correlation between O-6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation and esophageal cancer remains controversial. This study was conducted to evaluate the clinical effect of MGMT promoter methylation on esophageal carcinoma patients. Methods: A literature search was conducted in the PubMed, EMBASE, EBSCO, and Cochrane Library databases. The overall OR and corresponding 95% CI were calculated using the random-effects model. Results: Finally, 17 eligible studies were identified in this meta-analysis; these studies included a total of 1,368 patients with esophageal carcinoma and 1,489 with nonmalignant controls. MGMT promoter methylation was significantly higher in esophageal carcinoma tissue samples than in nonmalignant tissue samples (OR 3.64, p &lt; 0.001). Promoter methylation of the MGMT gene was not associated with gender, cigarette smoking, drinking behavior, or tumor differentiation, but MGMT promoter methylation was correlated with age (≥60 vs. &lt;60 years: OR 1.64, p = 0.028), lymph node status (positive status vs. negative status: OR 2.39, p = 0.024), and clinical stage (stages 3-4 vs. 1-2: OR 10.59, p &lt; 0.001). Conclusions: Our findings suggest that MGMT promoter methylation may be correlated with esophageal cancer carcinogenesis and could be associated with age, lymph node status, and clinical stage."
review-article	DDI493578	Novel Magnified Single-Balloon Enteroscopy Enables Observation of Jejunal White Spots Associated with Lymphangiectasia Novel Magnified Single-Balloon Enteroscopy Enables Observation of Jejunal White Spots Associated with Lymphangiectasia A 59-year-old woman was diagnosed with primary intestinal lymphangiectasia (PIL), with characteristic findings on capsule enteroscopy and confirmation by histopathological examination of biopsy specimens. We viewed the abnormal jejunal mucosa using a newly developed magnifying single-balloon enteroscope (SIF-Y0007). Conventional observation showed leakage of chyle. However, using this new scope, we could see scattered white villi, representing dilated lymphatic vessels within the intestinal villi protruding from the dilated submucosal lymphoid vessels (D2–40 positive) within an edematous jejunal lesion. This report is the first to describe the white villi in a patient with PIL observed clearly using a newly developed magnifying enteroscope. Technological advancements and the accumulation of reported pathological data would further improve our understanding of the pathophysiological aspects of this disease entity, even in the jejunum.
research-article	DDI494454	Upregulation of Fibroblast Growth Factor 19 Is Associated with the Initiation of Colorectal Adenoma Upregulation of Fibroblast Growth Factor 19 Is Associated with the Initiation of Colorectal Adenoma Fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) promotes tumor growth in various types of cancer, but its function has not been investigated in the context of colorectal adenoma. Here, we report that FGF19 expression was greater in colorectal adenoma than in normal tissues, as measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, quantitative reverse-transcription PCR and immunohistochemistry. FGF19 expression was also elevated in a subset of human colon cancer cell lines. Moreover, FGF receptor 4 (FGFR4), the cognate receptor for FGF19, was upregulated in colorectal adenoma tissues. Lipid levels and body mass index values strongly correlated with FGF19 and FGFR4 levels in patients with colon adenomas. These observations indicate that the FGF19/FGFR4 pathway may be involved in the development of neoplasia, and that FGF19 may be a valuable diagnostic marker for the identification of patients with colorectal adenomas.
review-article	DDI495694	The “Difficult” Colorectal Polyps and Adenomas: Practical Aspects The “Difficult” Colorectal Polyps and Adenomas: Practical Aspects Background: Colonoscopy is the gold standard for adenoma detection. All endoscopists who perform colonoscopy must by mandate be skilled to perform polypectomy. However, there are significant differences between endoscopists in terms of the polyp detection rate and in the effectiveness of polypectomy. Summary: Most polyps identified can be managed by conventional polypectomy and do not pose a significant challenge for resection to an adequately skilled and trained endoscopist. Up to 15% of polyps may be considered “difficult”, unsuitable for conventional endoscopic removal because of size, morphology, site, or access grade. Endoscopist-, patient- and polyp-specific viewpoints influence the management of difficult polyps. Advances in endoscopic resection techniques have led to extended indications for polypectomy. Conventional endoscopic removal of colorectal polyps is associated with a small but not negligible incidence of complications, most commonly bleeding and perforation. Advanced techniques for difficult polyps can potentially cause significant, even life-threatening complications. In addition, in the presence of “difficult” polyps, complications are more common. Key Messages: Multiple techniques are now available for the resection of difficult polyps. The endoscopist should individualize the appropriate approach for the treatment of difficult polyp in order to maximize oncological safety, efficacy and minimize complications and unnecessary surgery.
systematic-review	DEE339234	Cerebrovascular Function in Aging and Dementia: A Systematic Review of Transcranial Doppler Studies Cerebrovascular Function in Aging and Dementia: A Systematic Review of Transcranial Doppler Studies Background/Aim: The contribution of cerebrovascular dysfunction to the manifestation of dementia and cognitive decline in late life is gaining increased attention. We aimed to systematically review evidence for associations between dementia or aging and cerebrovascular function as measured using transcranial Doppler (TCD) examination. Methods: A total of 1,172 articles were retrieved from PsychInfo and PubMed searches, and 34 relevant articles were identified using a variety of TCD methods. Results: The pulsatility index (vessel resistance), spontaneous emboli and cerebrovascular reactivity to hyper-/hypocapnia appeared good discriminators of dementia. Aging was associated with a slowing in blood flow velocity. Conclusion: TCD ultrasonography is inexpensive, portable and well tolerated by aged and demented subjects. The technique stands to make a valuable contribution to the knowledge regarding the underlying functional biology of age-related cognitive change and dementia.
systematic-review	DEE345038	"Recommended Measures for the Assessment of Cognitive and Physical Performance in Older Patients with Dementia: A Systematic Review Recommended Measures for the Assessment of Cognitive and Physical Performance in Older Patients with Dementia: A Systematic Review Aim/Goal: To recommend a set of neuropsychological and physical exercise tests for researchers to assess cognition and physical fitness in clinical trials with older patients with dementia; to create consensus, decrease heterogeneity, and improve research quality. Methods: A literature search (2005–2011) yielded 89 randomized controlled trials. To provide information on test recommendations the frequency of test use, effect size of the test outcome, study quality, and psychometric properties of tests were analyzed. Results: Fifty-nine neuropsychological tests (cognitive domains: global cognition, executive functioning, memory, and attention) and 10 exercise tests (physical domains: endurance capacity, muscle strength, balance, and mobility) were found. Conclusion: The Severe Impairment Battery, Mini Mental State Examination, and Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale – cognitive subscale were recommended to measure global cognition. The Verbal Fluency Test Category/Letters, Clock Drawing Test, and Trail Making Test-B were recommended to measure executive functioning. No specific memory test could be recommended. The Digit Span Forward, Digit Span Backward, and Trail Making Test-A were recommended to measure attention. As physical exercise tests, the Timed Up and Go and Six Meter Walk for mobility, the Six Minute Walk Distance for endurance capacity, and the Tinetti Balance Scale were recommended."
research-article	DEE350028	Predictors of Time to Discharge in Patients Hospitalized for Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia Predictors of Time to Discharge in Patients Hospitalized for Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia Background/Aims: In Japan, more than 50,000 patients with dementia are housed in psychiatric facilities, a trend precipitated by prolonged hospitalizations. This study aimed to determine predictors for the time to discharge in patients hospitalized for behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD). Methods: Medical charts of patients admitted to an acute psychogeriatric ward for treatment of BPSD were reviewed. Cox's proportional hazards model was used to evaluate relationships between active behavioral problems and/or demographics at the time of admission, and the time until favorable discharge (FD), defined as discharge to the patient's own home or a care facility. Results: For the 402 study patients included in this study, median time to FD was 101 days. In addition to family and residential factors, multivariate analysis identified higher Mini-Mental State Examination scores as independent clinical predictors for a shorter hospital stay, whereas male gender and combative behavior as the primary reason for hospital admission were predictors for a longer hospital stay. Conclusion: Clinical characteristics can be predictive of the time to discharge for patients with BPSD. Earlier interventions and enhanced care strategies may be needed for patients with a lower likelihood of FD.
systematic-review	DEE354370	Rate of Conversion from Prodromal Alzheimer's Disease to Alzheimer's Dementia: A Systematic Review of the Literature Rate of Conversion from Prodromal Alzheimer's Disease to Alzheimer's Dementia: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background: The purpose of this study was to summarize published estimates for conversion from mild cognitive impairment or amnestic mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's dementia. We carried out a systematic review of English language publications to identify cohort studies published since January 2006 that reported the risk or rate of conversion. Summary: Thirty-two cohort studies were identified, of which 14 reported annualized conversion rates (ACRs). Conversions over 1 year ranged from 10.2 to 33.6% (5 studies, median: 19.0%), and over 2 years from 9.8 to 36.3% (7 studies, median: 18.6%). ACRs ranged from 7.5 to 16.5% (7 studies, median: 11.0%) per person-year for studies recruiting from clinics, and from 5.4 to 11.5% (7 studies, median: 7.1%) for community samples. Key Message: Extensive variation was observed in conversion rates due to the population sampled, diagnostic criteria, and duration, and because many studies did not account for loss to follow-up.
research-article	DEE367987	"Anosognosia in People with Cognitive Impairment: Association with Cognitive Deficits and Behavioral Disturbances Anosognosia in People with Cognitive Impairment: Association with Cognitive Deficits and Behavioral Disturbances Aims: To investigate, in a group of subjects at an early stage of cognitive impairment, the relationship between anosognosia and both cognitive and behavioral symptoms by exploring the various domains of insight. Methods: One hundred and eight subjects affected by cognitive impairment were consecutively enrolled. The level of awareness was evaluated by means of the Clinical Insight Rating Scale (CIRS). Psychiatric symptoms were evaluated using the Italian version of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), whereas memory (memory index, MI) and executive (executive index, EI) functions were explored using a battery of neuropsychological tests and qualified by means of a single composite cognitive index score for each function. Results: A significant positive correlation between the total NPI score and global anosognosia score was found. Furthermore, both the MI and EI scores were lower in subjects with anosognosia than in those without anosognosia (p &lt; 0.001 and p &lt; 0.007, respectively). When the single domains of the CIRS were considered, anosognosia of reason of visit correlated with the EI score (r = -0.327, p = 0.01) and night-time behavioral disturbances (r = 0.225; p = 0.021); anosognosia of cognitive deficit correlated with depression (r = -0.193; p = 0.049) and the MI score (r = -0.201; p = 0.040); anosognosia of functional deficit correlated with the MI score (r = -0.257; p = 0.008), delusions (r = 0.232; p = 0.015) and aberrant motor behavior (r = 0.289; p = 0.003); anosognosia of disease progression correlated with the MI score (r = -0.236; p = 0.015), agitation (r = 0.247; p = 0.011), aberrant motor behavior (r = 0.351; p = 0.001) and night-time behavioral disturbances (r = 0.216; p = 0.027). Conclusions: Our study suggests that, in the early stage of cognitive impairment, anosognosia is associated with both cognitive deficits and behavioral disorders according to the specific functional anatomy of the symptoms."
research-article	DEE371509	Effects of Pioglitazone or Exercise in Older Adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment and Insulin Resistance: A Pilot Study Effects of Pioglitazone or Exercise in Older Adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment and Insulin Resistance: A Pilot Study Aims: To examine the effects of pioglitazone or endurance exercise training on cognitive function in older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and insulin resistance. Methods: Seventy-eight adults (mean age ± SD: 65 ± 7 years) with central obesity and MCI were randomized to 6 months of endurance exercise, pioglitazone or control. Results: Sixty-six participants completed the study. Exercise training did not significantly increase peak oxygen uptake compared to control (p = 0.12). Compared to control, insulin resistance improved in the pioglitazone group (p = 0.002) but not in the exercise group (p = 0.25). There was no measureable effect of pioglitazone or exercise on cognitive performance compared to control. Conclusion: In this pilot study, pioglitazone improved insulin resistance but not cognitive performance in older adults with MCI and insulin resistance.
research-article	DEE441776	"Comparison between Early-Onset and Late-Onset Alzheimer's Disease Patients with Amnestic Presentation: CSF and 18F-FDG PET Study Comparison between Early-Onset and Late-Onset Alzheimer's Disease Patients with Amnestic Presentation: CSF and 18F-FDG PET Study Background/Aims: To investigate the differences in brain glucose consumption between patients with early onset of Alzheimer's disease (EOAD, aged ≤65 years) and patients with late onset of Alzheimer's disease (LOAD, aged &gt;65 years). Methods: Differences in brain glucose consumption between the groups have been evaluated by means of Statistical Parametric Mapping version 8, with the use of age, sex, Mini-Mental State Examination and cerebrospinal fluid values of Aβ1-42, phosphorylated Tau and total Tau as covariates in the comparison between EOAD and LOAD. Results: As compared to LOAD, EOAD patients showed a significant decrease in glucose consumption in a wide portion of the left parietal lobe (BA7, BA31 and BA40). No significant differences were obtained when subtracting the EOAD from the LOAD group. Conclusions: The results of our study show that patients with EOAD show a different metabolic pattern as compared to those with LOAD that mainly involves the left parietal lobe."
research-article	DEE493973	Anxiety and Depression as Risk Factors in Frontotemporal Dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease: The HUNT Study Anxiety and Depression as Risk Factors in Frontotemporal Dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease: The HUNT Study Background: The roles of both anxiety and depression as risk factors for frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Alzheimer’s disease (AD) have not been previously investigated together. Objective: To study anxiety and depression as independent risk factors for FTD and AD. Methods: Eighty-four patients with FTD and 556 patients with AD were compared with 117 cognitively healthy (CH), elderly individuals. Both cases and controls were participants in the second Health Study of Nord-Trøndelag (HUNT2) from 1995 to 1997, in which depression and anxiety were assessed with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Results: Significant associations were found between anxiety and FTD and between depression and AD. A significantly increased risk of developing FTD was observed in patients who had reported anxiety on the HADS (p = 0.017) (odds ratio [OR]: 2.947, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.209–7.158) and a significantly increased risk of developing AD was observed in patients who had reported depression on the HADS (p = 0.016) (OR: 4.389, 95% CI: 1.311–14.690). Conclusion: Our study findings suggest that anxiety and depression may play different roles as risk factors for FTD and AD.
systematic-review	DEM272424	Incidence of Mild Cognitive Impairment: A Systematic Review Incidence of Mild Cognitive Impairment: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: Subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) constitute a risk population of developing dementia and thus a population of clinical interest. This study reviews recent work on the incidence of MCI in the elderly. Methods: Incidence papers were identified by a systematic literature search. Studies on the incidence of MCI were considered if they identified ‘cognitively mildly impaired’ subjects by application of the MCI criteria, used the ‘person-years-at-risk’ method, and were based on population- or community-based samples. Results: Nine studies were identified. The incidence of amnestic MCI subtypes ranged between 9.9 and 40.6 per 1,000 person-years, and the incidence of non-amnestic MCI subtypes was 28 and 36.3 per 1,000 person-years. Regarding any MCI, incidence rates of 51 and 76.8 per 1,000 person-years were found. A higher risk of incident MCI mainly resulted for higher age, lower education and hypertension. Discussion: The incidence rates of MCI varied widely, and possible risk factors for incident MCI were analysed only to a limited extent. The findings call for an agreement concerning the criteria used for MCI and the operationalisation of these criteria.
systematic-review	DEM289779	"The Assessment of Changes in Cognitive Functioning: Reliable Change Indices for Neuropsychological Instruments in the Elderly – A Systematic Review The Assessment of Changes in Cognitive Functioning: Reliable Change Indices for Neuropsychological Instruments in the Elderly – A Systematic Review Background/Aims: The determination of meaningful cognitive change over time is essential for the diagnosis of dementia in the elderly. Reliable change indices (RCIs) represent a suitable methodology to assess clinically significant cognitive change. The purpose of this paper is to provide a systematic review of RCI scores in elderly persons for neuropsychological tests currently available. Methods: A comprehensive literature search was conducted. Longitudinal studies dealing with the assessment of RCIs for cognitive instruments and cognitively healthy older participants were reviewed. Quality of studies was determined using a standardized system of evaluating methodical quality. Results: A total of 11 studies met the inclusion criteria; half of the studies rated highly for methodical quality. RCI scores were summarized for a number of neuropsychological instruments. Conclusion: RCIs have important implications regarding the interpretation of change in test scores in older adults. Further assessment and standardization is needed for many neuropsychological instruments."
systematic-review	DEM320987	Review of Dairy Consumption and Cognitive Performance in Adults: Findings and Methodological Issues Review of Dairy Consumption and Cognitive Performance in Adults: Findings and Methodological Issues Background: Diet is a modifiable factor that could be targeted as an appropriate intervention to optimise cognitive health and well-being in ageing. Aim: The aim of this systematic review was to consider current evidence for an association between dairy intake and cognitive functioning. Methods: Searches of the electronic databases Medline, Embase, Web of Science, CINAHL, and PsychInfo were undertaken to identify peer-reviewed journal articles that reported on associations between dairy consumption and cognitive outcomes. Results: Three cross-sectional and 5 prospective studies were identified. Poorer cognitive function and an increased risk for vascular dementia were found to be associated with a lower consumption of milk or dairy products. However, the consumption of whole-fat dairy products may be associated with cognitive decline in the elderly. Conclusion: Methodological variability and study limitations do not enable conclusions regarding optimal dairy intake and cognitive performance to be drawn. Randomised controlled trials are needed to confirm the relationship between dairy intake and cognition.
systematic-review	DEM343931	"Systematic Review of Neuropsychological Outcomes in Dementia from Cognition-Based Psychological Interventions Systematic Review of Neuropsychological Outcomes in Dementia from Cognition-Based Psychological Interventions Background/Aims: Although there is increasing evidence for the effectiveness of cognition-based psychological interventions in dementia, little is known about which neuropsychological domains are more amenable to change. Method: A systematic search identified randomised controlled trials grouped according to intervention type (cognitive training/cognitive stimulation). Methodological quality was evaluated. Results: Of the 129 studies identified, 18 met the inclusion criteria; 11 were ‘Cognitive Training’ and 7 ‘Cognitive Stimulation’. For Cognitive Training, it was not possible to conclude which (if any) domains are most amenable to change. For Cognitive Stimulation, there was good evidence for general cognitive enhancement, more specifically in language and memory. Conclusions: Further in-depth trials are needed to determine neuropsychological processes more clearly."
systematic-review	DEM346633	Coping and Depression in Old Age: A Literature Review Coping and Depression in Old Age: A Literature Review Background/Aims: The interest in the relation between coping and depression in older persons is growing, but research on the concepts and instruments of coping in relation to depression among older persons is scarce and systematic reviews are lacking. With this background, we wanted to gain a systematic overview of this field by performing a systematic literature search. Methods: A computer-aided search in MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Embase, PubMed and www.salutogenesis.fi was conducted. We systematically searched for studies including coping and depression among persons 60 years of age and above. The included studies were evaluated according to predefined quality criteria. Results: Seventy-five studies, 38 clinical and 37 community settings, were included. Of these, 44 were evaluated to be of higher quality. Studies recruiting samples of older persons with a major depressive disorder, moderate or severe cognitive impairment or those who were dependent on care were scarce, thus the research is not representative of such samples. We found a huge variety of instruments assessing resources and strategies of coping (55 inventories). Although we found the relation between resources and strategies of coping and depression to be strong in the majority of studies, i.e. a higher sense of control and internal locus of control, more active strategies and positive religious coping were significantly associated with fewer symptoms of depression both in longitudinal and cross-sectional studies in clinical and community settings. Conclusion: Resources and strategies of coping are significantly associated with depressive symptoms in late life, but more research to systematize the field of coping and to validate the instruments of resources and strategies of coping in older populations is required, especially among older persons suffering from major depression and cognitive decline.
systematic-review	DEM346733	Cognitive Impairment in Studies of 5HTTLPR and Psychosis in Alzheimer’s Disease: A Systematic Review Cognitive Impairment in Studies of 5HTTLPR and Psychosis in Alzheimer’s Disease: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: Cognitive impairment is a well-established correlate of psychotic symptoms in Alzheimer’s disease (AD-P). We review whether this relationship has confounded previous genetic association studies of 5HTTLPR and AD-P. Methods: We reviewed all studies on 5HTTLPR and conducted a semi-quantitative analysis. Results: Three out of 4 studies with low MMSE reported a significant association, while 1 out of 4 with high MMSE reported a significant association. Conclusions: Variation in cognitive impairment in past studies has contributed to the inconsistency in findings. The findings presented here bring a greater clarity to our understanding of the role of 5HTTLPR in AD-P.
research-article	DEM346735	Memory Awareness Profiles Differentiate Mild Cognitive Impairment from Early-Stage Dementia: Evidence from Assessments of Performance Monitoring and Evaluative Judgement Memory Awareness Profiles Differentiate Mild Cognitive Impairment from Early-Stage Dementia: Evidence from Assessments of Performance Monitoring and Evaluative Judgement Background: Measures of memory awareness based on evaluative judgement and performance monitoring are often regarded as equivalent, but the Levels of Awareness Framework suggests they reflect different awareness phenomena. Examination of memory awareness among groups with differing degrees of impairment provides a test of this proposition. Method: Ninety-nine people with dementia (PwD), 30 people with mild cognitive impairment (PwMCI), and their relatives completed isomorphic performance monitoring and evaluative judgement measures of memory awareness and were followed up at 12 and (PwD only) 20 months. In addition to the resulting awareness indices, comparative accuracy scores were calculated using the relatives' data to establish whether any inaccuracy was specific to self-ratings. Results: When making evaluative judgements about their memory in general, both PwD and PwMCI tended to overestimate their own functioning relative to informant ratings made by relatives. When monitoring performance on memory tests, PwD again overestimated performance relative to test scores, but PwMCI were much more accurate. Comparative accuracy scores indicated that, unlike PwD, PwMCI do not show a specific inaccuracy in self-related appraisals. Conclusions: The results support the proposition that awareness indices at the levels of evaluative judgement and performance monitoring should be regarded as reflecting distinct awareness phenomena.
systematic-review	DEM347140	Adherence to Cholinesterase Inhibitors in Alzheimer's Disease: A Review Adherence to Cholinesterase Inhibitors in Alzheimer's Disease: A Review Background/Aims: Treatment adherence is a major problem in numerous medical conditions, and is a particular challenge in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Methods: This non-systematic review summarises the current literature on factors that affect adherence to cholinesterase inhibitors, the mainstay of AD treatment. Articles listed on PubMed and published during the last 10 years were included. Results: Intentional factors affecting adherence include patient, caregiver and prescriber beliefs about therapies and the disease itself. Unintentional factors include tolerability, physical limitations of the patient and caregiver burden. Interventions aiming to improve adherence include educational programmes and new drug delivery methods. Conclusion: Due to the high level of caregiver involvement in the care of patients with AD, strategies that address caregiver concerns may improve adherence.
systematic-review	DEM350031	The Relationship between Executive Function and Falls and Gait Abnormalities in Older Adults: A Systematic Review The Relationship between Executive Function and Falls and Gait Abnormalities in Older Adults: A Systematic Review Background/Objectives: Older adults with dementia have at least a twofold increased risk of falls. Multi-factorial interventions have failed to demonstrate a reduction in falls in this group. Improved understanding of specific cognitive factors and their relationship to gait, balance and falls is required. Methods: Systematic searches of Medline, Embase, PsycInfo, and CINAHL databases from inception to April 2011 were conducted to identify prospective studies in older adults examining executive function and its relationship with falls, balance and gait abnormalities. Two independent reviewers extracted data on study populations, executive function measures and study outcomes. Results: Of 8,985 abstracts identified, 14 studies met inclusion criteria. Eleven studies examined executive function and falls. The remaining studies examined executive function and gait speed decline. Nine studies examining executive function and falls found a relationship between poor executive function and increased fall risk. All 3 studies examining executive function and gait found an association between poor executive function and declines in gait speed. Impaired executive function was associated with more serious falling patterns. Conclusions: Executive function was associated with falls and gait speed slowing in older adults. Future research should consider executive dysfunction as a training target for fall prevention, or as a factor mediating the failure of conventional fall prevention interventions.
systematic-review	DEM351679	Clinical Assessment of Amyloid Imaging in Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review of the Literature Clinical Assessment of Amyloid Imaging in Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background/Aims: Healthcare systems face an increased prevalence of Alzheimer's disease and increasing costs. The use of molecular biomarkers and imaging could offer an effective solution for these issues. The objective of this study was to assess amyloid imaging regarding clinical utility and impact. Methods: A literature search was performed in several databases, searching articles between 2008 and January 2013 following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The results are reported according to the clinical correlates of amyloid imaging. Results: Thirty-three studies were included in the final analysis. Five studies evaluated amyloid imaging for diagnosis. Nine studies assessed the prognostic value. Twenty-two studies provided correlations to cognitive measures. Amyloid imaging provides a high reliability in diagnosis and prognosis, but cognitive measures only showed weak correlations. Conclusion: The evidence clearly indicated that amyloid imaging has not arrived yet in clinical practice. However, it can provide substantial benefits in special aspects of diagnostic accuracy and for a diagnosis up to 10 years before clinical diagnosis. This can be a base for early preventive treatment strategies such as anti-amyloid therapy. In this context, amyloid imaging is crucial to understand the early pathologic process in Alzheimer's disease.
systematic-review	DEM353444	"Prevalence of Dementia in Japan: A Systematic Review Prevalence of Dementia in Japan: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: The actual prevalence of dementia in Japan as well as the changes in the prevalence are not well known. Therefore, we undertook a systematic review to collect evidence regarding the prevalence of dementia in Japan. Methods: For this systematic review, we searched 2 electronic databases to identify cross-sectional or repeated cross-sectional studies with data regarding the study population, study location, diagnostic criteria, and prevalence of dementia. Results: Twenty-one studies were selected from 782 references. Sixteen studies surveyed individuals living at home; of these, 5 studies also included hospitalized or institutionalized patients. Most of the studies were conducted using a two-phase survey (phase I: screening, phase II: diagnosis of dementia). The clinical diagnosis of dementia was made based on the guidelines of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) in a majority of the studies. The prevalence of all types of dementia ranged from 2.9 to 12.5% and has been gradually increasing over the past few years. Conclusion: The results of this systematic review suggest that the prevalence of dementia has recently increased. However, further well-designed studies taking into account factors that affect the prevalence of dementia are needed to clarify the actual prevalence."
systematic-review	DEM353892	Pharmacological Treatment of Dementia: A Scoping Review of Systematic Reviews Pharmacological Treatment of Dementia: A Scoping Review of Systematic Reviews Background: Until now, multiple reviews on the pharmacological treatment of dementia have been published. Methods: We performed a scoping review to summarize research findings and to identify gaps in the existing literature. We searched the literature and assessed the risk of bias of the included reviews. A team of clinical experts assessed the fields in which more research is necessary. Fifty-five reviews with a low risk of bias were included, most of them concerning the treatment of cognitive decline (n = 16) and behavioral symptoms (n = 10) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). For cognitive impairment, cholinesterase inhibitors (n = 13) and memantine (n = 7) were described most frequently. Little information was found about the treatment of depression in dementia. Conclusions: For many current treatments, there is sufficient evidence. New research should focus on the symptomatic treatment of the earliest and most salient complaints in AD as well as on disease-modifying interventions acting at the level of the amyloid cascade.
systematic-review	DEM354365	Cognitive Psychosocial Intervention in Dementia: A Systematic Review Cognitive Psychosocial Intervention in Dementia: A Systematic Review Background: The evolution of dementia depends on the underlying pathology, early diagnosis and the availability of effective treatment for some of the symptoms that interfere with the patients' or caregivers' quality of life. Even though there is no specific treatment to reverse dementia, some interventions such as reality orientation and skills training can retard cognitive impairment. Aim: To review existing scientific evidence regarding the efficacy of therapies included in the category of cognition-oriented approaches for people suffering from dementia. Methods: Papers were retrieved from several bibliographic databases (last publication date: 2009) with pre-specified selection criteria, data extraction and methodological quality assessment. Results: Nine reality orientation and 8 skills training trials were identified as meeting the inclusion criteria. Conclusions: Stimulation of cognitive functions, especially by means of reality orientation, improves overall cognitive function in patients suffering from dementia.
systematic-review	DEM365388	Effect of Physical Exercise on Cognitive Performance in Older Adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment or Dementia: A Systematic Review Effect of Physical Exercise on Cognitive Performance in Older Adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment or Dementia: A Systematic Review Numerous studies have shown that physical exercise has positive effects on cognition in healthy adults. Less is known about the effectiveness of exercise interventions in older individuals already suffering from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia. The aim of this study was to systematically review the evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of the effects of physical exercise on cognition in older subjects with MCI or dementia. PubMed, Cochrane and DARE databases were systematically searched for RCTs using terms related to cognition and physical exercise. Altogether, 22 trials were found. The studies on older subjects with MCI reported some positive effects of physical exercise on cognition, mainly on global cognition, executive function, attention and delayed recall. However, most studies performed on older subjects with dementia showed no effect of exercise on cognition. The studies had methodological problems in defining dementia/MCI diagnosis, blinding, inadequate sample sizes and not reporting dropouts, compliance or complications. More studies of good quality on older adults with dementia are needed.
meta-analysis	DEM367783	"A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Examining Pneumonia-Associated Mortality in Dementia A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Examining Pneumonia-Associated Mortality in Dementia Background: Although it is generally accepted that deaths associated with pneumonia are more common in patients with dementia, no comprehensive reviews on the subject have previously been published. Summary: Relevant studies were identified through a literature search of the PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus, and ISI Web of Science databases for publications up to August 2013. Studies were included if (1) a group of adult subjects with dementia and a (comparison) group composed of subjects without dementia were included, (2) the cause(s) of death was/were reported, and (3) pneumonia was identified as one of the possible causes of death. The occurrence of death due to pneumonia associated with dementia was expressed as an odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI). Thirteen studies were included. The odds of death resulting from pneumonia were significantly increased for persons with any form of dementia compared with those without dementia (OR = 2.22, 95% CI 1.44-3.42, p &lt; 0.001). In a subgroup analysis, using the results from 8 studies that restricted inclusion to persons with Alzheimer's disease, the odds of death resulting from pneumonia were also significantly higher (OR = 1.70, 95% CI 1.12-2.58, p = 0.013). Key Messages: The odds of pneumonia-associated mortality were increased more than 2-fold for patients with dementia. © 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel"
meta-analysis	DEM369882	"The Prevalence of Depressive Symptoms in Frontotemporal Dementia: A Meta-Analysis The Prevalence of Depressive Symptoms in Frontotemporal Dementia: A Meta-Analysis Background: Depression is common in Alzheimer's and vascular dementia and is associated with poorer outcomes; however, less is known about the impact of depression on frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Here, we conducted a meta-analysis of diagnostic methods and the prevalence of depressive symptoms in FTD. Methods: PubMed, EMBASE and PsychINFO were queried for ‘depression' and/or ‘depressive mood' in behavioral- and language-variant FTD. The prevalence and diagnosis of depressive symptoms were extracted from relevant studies and the results pooled using a random-effects model. Results: We included 29 studies in this meta-analysis, with sample sizes ranging from 3 to 73 (n = 870). The omnibus estimated event rate of depressed mood was 0.334 (33%; 95% CI: 0.268-0.407). Symptoms were most commonly assessed via standardized neuropsychiatric rating scales, with other methods including subjective caregiver reports and chart reviews. The study results were heterogeneous due to the variability in diagnostic methods. Conclusions: Depressive symptoms similar to those in other dementias are commonly detected in FTD. However, the diagnostic methods are heterogeneous, and symptoms of depression often overlap with manifestations of FTD. Having a standardized diagnostic approach to depression in FTD will greatly facilitate future research in this area."
research-article	DEM371874	The Impact of Individualized Interaction on the Quality of Life of Elderly Dependent on Care as a Result of Dementia: A Study with a Pre-Post Design The Impact of Individualized Interaction on the Quality of Life of Elderly Dependent on Care as a Result of Dementia: A Study with a Pre-Post Design Background: The aim was to assess the impact of a one-to-one 30-min individualized interaction per day on the behavior and quality of life of care-dependent residents with dementia. Methods: In a pre-/post-test study, 15 care-dependent residents with dementia (mean age 88.8 years, 86.7% women) were included. Resident behavior was measured using video observation and quality of life using Qualidem. Health care professionals (n = 13) and direct relatives (n = 4) were interviewed about the effect of the intervention. The effect of the intervention was analyzed using the Friedman analysis of variance. Results: The video observation showed that maintaining eye contact, touching, responding to speaking, tracking observable stimuli and asking questions about the activity significantly increased during the intervention. These findings were supported by interviews with nurses who described experiences of making human-to-human contact with the residents. No significant overall changes were found in quality of life. These findings were partially supported by interviews with health care professionals and relatives as some perceived effects beyond the 30-min intervention. Conclusions: Interaction offered on a one-to-one basis tailored to individual preferences significantly improved positive interactive behavior of care-dependent residents with dementia during the intervention. Surveys revealed no significant overall effect of the intervention. The interviews indicated there might be effects beyond the intervention for some residents.
meta-analysis	DEM377672	"Cerebrolysin in Mild-to-Moderate Alzheimer's Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Clinical Trials Cerebrolysin in Mild-to-Moderate Alzheimer's Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Clinical Trials Objective: The aim of this study was to provide a systematic and quantitative summary of benefit and risk of Cerebrolysin in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) and to avoid major deficiencies of an earlier meta-analysis. Design: This is a meta-analysis of randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials. Data Sources: Trials were identified with the help of PubMed, the Cochrane Dementia Group database, the Center for Collaborative Neurosciences, and references from reviews; no language restrictions were applied. Study Selection: All randomized double-blind placebo-controlled studies on 30 ml/day of Cerebrolysin in mild-to-moderate AD were included. Results: There were 6 eligible randomized controlled trials comparing Cerebrolysin with placebo. For all studies, either individual patient data and/or published data (aggregate data) were available. Analyses were based on the odds ratio (OR) for dichotomized global clinical change and for safety criteria, on the standardized mean difference (SMD) for pooling of cognitive function, and on the Mann-Whitney statistic (MW) for multivariate analysis of ‘global benefit' (combined effect of global clinical change and cognitive function). Cerebrolysin was significantly more effective than placebo at 4 weeks regarding cognitive function (4 weeks: SMD -0.40 points; 95% CI -0.66 to -0.13; p = 0.0031; 6 months: SMD -0.37 points; 95% CI -0.90 to 0.16; p = 0.1710), at 4 weeks and 6 months regarding global clinical change (4 weeks: OR 3.32; 95% CI 1.20-9.21; p = 0.0212; 6 months: OR 4.98; 95% CI 1.37-18.13; p = 0.0150), and at 4 weeks and 6 months regarding ‘global benefit' (combined efficacy criteria; 4 weeks: MW 0.57, 95% CI 0.53-0.61; p = 0.0006; 6 months: MW 0.57; 95% CI 0.53-0.61; p = 0.0010). The safety aspects of Cerebrolysin were comparable to placebo. Conclusion: This meta-analysis provides evidence that Cerebrolysin has an overall beneficial effect and a favorable benefit-risk ratio in patients with mild-to-moderate AD. Cerebrolysin as a therapeutic agent should be considered by clinicians seeking treatment options for mild-to-moderate AD."
systematic-review	DEM442941	Frontal Lobe Degeneration in Adults with Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's Disease: A Review Frontal Lobe Degeneration in Adults with Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's Disease: A Review Background: There is a proven link between Down syndrome and the early development of the neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Changes in the personality and behavior of adults with Down syndrome might indicate the early stages of dementia or of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. The objective of this study was to investigate the executive functions and changes in behavior associated with frontal lobe degeneration in individuals with Down syndrome who develop AD. We conducted a systematic review selecting studies employing cognitive assessments. Summary: We identified few studies using objective measurements to determine whether cognitive aspects associated with the frontal lobe correlate with dementia in this population. We observed a tendency toward such correlations. Key Messages: There is a need for further studies in which objective measures of cognitive and behavioral factors are evaluated together with data related to brain function and morphology.
meta-analysis	DEM443205	"Survival in Frontotemporal Dementia Phenotypes: A Meta-Analysis Survival in Frontotemporal Dementia Phenotypes: A Meta-Analysis Background: Survival in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is not well understood. We conducted a mixed effects meta-analysis of survival in FTD to examine phenotype differences and contributory factors. Methods: The PubMed, Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO and Cochrane databases were searched for studies describing survival or natural history of behavioral variant FTD (bvFTD), progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA), semantic dementia (SD), FTD with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FTD-ALS), progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration. There were no language restrictions. Results: We included 27 studies (2,462 subjects). Aggregate mean and median survival were derived for each phenotype and, for comparison, Alzheimer's disease (AD) (using data from the selected studies). Survival was shortest in FTD-ALS (2.5 years). Mean survival was longest in bvFTD and PNFA (8 years) and median survival in SD (12 years). AD was comparable in survival to all except FTD-ALS. Age and sex did not affect survival; the education effect was equivocal. Heterogeneity in FTD survival was largely, but not wholly, explained by phenotypes. Conclusions: Survival differs for FTD phenotypes but, except for FTD-ALS, compares well to AD survival. Elucidating the potential causes of within-phenotype heterogeneity in survival (such as complicating features and comorbidities) may open up opportunities for tailored interventions."
research-article	DEM444216	"Body Mass Index Predicts Progression of Mild Cognitive Impairment to Dementia Body Mass Index Predicts Progression of Mild Cognitive Impairment to Dementia Aims: To examine the relationship between body mass index (BMI) and progression to dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Materials and Methods: Two hundred and twenty-eight MCI subjects (mean age 74.04 ± 6.94 years; 57% female) from a memory clinic were followed for 2.40 ± 1.58 years. Baseline height and weight were used to calculate the BMI. The main outcome was progression to dementia (DSM-IV criteria) and AD (NINCDS-ADRDA criteria). Cox proportional hazard models were used to assess the longitudinal association of BMI with dementia and AD, adjusting for a comprehensive set of covariates, including vascular risk factors/diseases and neuroimaging profiles. Results: Out of 228 subjects with MCI, 117 (51.3%) progressed to dementia. Eighty-nine (76%) of the incident dementia cases had AD. In both unadjusted and multi-adjusted models, a higher BMI was associated with a reduced risk of dementia (multi-adjusted HR 0.9; 95% CI 0.8-0.9) and AD (multi-adjusted HR 0.9; 95% CI 0.8-0.9). Being underweight increased the risk of all types of dementia (multi-adjusted HR 2.5; 95% CI 1.2-5.1) but was not specifically associated with AD (multi-adjusted HR 2.2; 95% CI 0.9-5.3). Conclusions: BMI predicted progression of MCI to dementia and AD. In particular, a higher BMI was associated with a lower risk of dementia and AD, and underweight was associated with a higher risk of dementia. BMI assessment may improve the prognostic accuracy of MCI in clinical practice."
meta-analysis	DEM445941	Impact of Insulin Sensitizers on the Incidence of Dementia: A Meta-Analysis Impact of Insulin Sensitizers on the Incidence of Dementia: A Meta-Analysis Background: Abundant evidence from epidemiological and clinical studies has proven that diabetes mellitus (DM) is correlated with an increased incidence of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Insulin resistance is considered to play an important role in the associations between DM and dementia. However, whether insulin sensitizer drugs are effective in preventing dementia still remains unclear. Methods: Electronic searches of PubMed, EMBASE, Google Scholar, and the ISI Web of Science were conducted to identify studies that reported about the associations between insulin sensitizers and the incidence of dementia. The included studies were reviewed, and a meta-analysis was performed using STATA to determine the combined relative risk (RR) for the incidence of dementia when using insulin sensitizers. Subgroup analysis and meta regression were also conducted. Results: In total, nine comparisons out of six studies were qualified for inclusion, and data from 544,093 participants were evaluated. The results of the meta-analysis revealed a combined RR of 0.78 (95% CI 0.64-0.95, p = 0.015) for the incidence of dementia when using insulin sensitizers. The incidence rate of dementia was reduced with either metformin (RR 0.79, 95% CI 0.62-1.01, p = 0.064) or thiazolidinediones (RR 0.75, 95% CI 0.56-1.00, p = 0.050), both with a marginal trend toward significance. Conclusions: The results indicate that insulin sensitizer drugs might provide protection against incident dementia. Controlled studies with large samples should be conducted to further confirm these conclusions and provide information for clinical strategies.
meta-analysis	DEM447324	Association Study and Meta-Analysis of Polymorphisms, Methylation Profiles, and Peripheral mRNA Expression of the Serotonin Transporter Gene in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease Association Study and Meta-Analysis of Polymorphisms, Methylation Profiles, and Peripheral mRNA Expression of the Serotonin Transporter Gene in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease Background/Aim: The aim of this study was to elucidate the relationship between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4). Methods: AD subjects (n = 43) and controls (n = 47) were recruited and evaluated. In leukocytes, we evaluated two polymorphisms in SLC6A4, the serotonin transporter length polymorphic region (5-HTT-LPR) and rs25531, as well as methylation rates of the SLC6A4 promoter region and the SLC6A4 mRNA expression level. We also performed a meta-analysis to examine the relationship between the frequency of the L allele and the risk of AD. Results: The distributions of 5-HTT-LPR and rs25531 polymorphisms in AD subjects were not different from those of controls. Although the methylation rates in AD subjects were not significantly different from those of controls, the expression level in AD subjects was significantly higher than in controls. Additionally, the expression level in AD subjects was significantly correlated with apathy. Meta-analysis revealed that the L/L genotype significantly reduced the risk of AD, but only in the Caucasian population. Conclusion: Higher SLC6A4 mRNA expression in leukocytes in AD was associated with apathy regardless of SLC6A4 genotypes and methylation rates of the promoter region. The L/L genotype may reduce the risk of AD in the Caucasian population.
systematic-review	DEM448213	A Systematic Review of the Definitions of Vascular Cognitive Impairment, No Dementia in Cohort Studies A Systematic Review of the Definitions of Vascular Cognitive Impairment, No Dementia in Cohort Studies Background/Aims: No set operational criteria for vascular cognitive impairment, no dementia (VCI-ND) have yet been established. The aim of this study is to undertake a systematic review to compare definitions of VCI-ND that have been used in cohort studies. Methods: Medline, PsycINFO and Embase were searched from inception to October 13, 2015. Initially, 3,142 records were screened, and 30 were included in this review. Results: No single set of criteria for defining VCI-ND was identified. VCI-ND was broadly defined as an absence of dementia, cognitive impairment in at least one cognitive domain with signs of vascular involvement, and intact activities of daily living. Conclusion: Defining criteria will enable individuals with VCI-ND to be efficiently compared across cohort studies to more accurately determine the prevalence and risk of dementia.
review-article	DEM453256	Inhibitors of Acetylcholinesterase Derived from 7-Methoxytacrine and Their Effects on the Choline Transporter CHT1 Inhibitors of Acetylcholinesterase Derived from 7-Methoxytacrine and Their Effects on the Choline Transporter CHT1 Background: Reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are used in Alzheimer disease therapy. However, tacrine and its derivatives have severe side effects. Derivatives of the tacrine analogue 7-methoxytacrine (MEOTA) are less toxic. Methods: We evaluated new derivatives of 7-MEOTA (2 homodimers linked by 2 C4-C5 chains and 5 N-alkylated C4-C8 side chain derivatives) in vitro, using the rat hippocampal choline transporter CHT1. Results: Some derivatives were effective inhibitors of rat acetylcholinesterase and comparable with 7-MEOTA. All derivatives were able to inhibit CHT1, probably via quaternary ammonium, and this interaction could be involved in the enhancement of their detrimental side effects and/or in the attenuation of their promising effects. Under conditions of disrupted lipid rafts, the unfavorable effects of some derivatives were weakened. Only tacrine was probably able to stereospecifically interact with the naturally occurring amyloid-β isoform and to simultaneously stimulate CHT1. Some derivatives, when coincubated with amyloid β, did not influence CHT1. All derivatives also increased the fluidity of the cortical membranes. Conclusion: The N-alkylated derivative of 7-MEOTA bearing from C4 side chains appears to be the most promising compound and should be evaluated in future in vivo research.
review-article	DEM454916	Why Almost Always Animals? Ranking Fluency Tasks for the Detection of Dementia Based on Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) and Quality ROC Analyses Why Almost Always Animals? Ranking Fluency Tasks for the Detection of Dementia Based on Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) and Quality ROC Analyses Background/Aims: Category fluency tasks have been widely used to assess cognitive functioning in both clinical and experimental environments as an index of cognitive and psycholinguistic dysfunctions in dementia. Typically, a reduced group of semantic categories has been selected for neuropsychological assessment (e.g., animals, fruits or vegetables), although empirical support for the prevalence of one category among others is absent in the literature. Methods: We provide an empirical evaluation of the ability of 14 category fluency tasks to discriminate between subjects with dementia of the Alzheimer type and healthy elderly participants. As a novelty, we used both receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and quality ROC calibrated analyses to characterize the interplay of sensitivity and specificity of every category fluency task performance as a screening tool. The use of calibrated measures provided us with a useful tool for comparing the diagnostic ability of the different categories, as well as making rankings of categories based on the quality indices of efficiency, sensitivity, and specificity. Results: The habitually used category of animals is far from being the most efficient one in terms of its diagnostic power to evaluate dementia. Conclusion: Our study might guide the selection of suitable category fluency tasks according to the diagnostic purposes in dementia.
systematic-review	DEM455120	Review of Decision-Making in Game Tasks in Elderly Participants with Alzheimer Disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment Review of Decision-Making in Game Tasks in Elderly Participants with Alzheimer Disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment Background: Changes in decision-making (DM) have recently been investigated in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). DM is highly relevant to everyday functioning and autonomy. It relies on several cognitive abilities, such as semantic and episodic memory, as well as aspects of executive functioning. We conducted a systematic review of DM in older adults with MCI and AD. Summary: Only 5 studies whose main objective was to evaluate the DM performance were selected. The results extracted indicated that DM in ambiguity and in at-risk situations are both impaired in probable AD patients. MCI patients have difficulty making advantageous decisions under ambiguity and at risk, similar to patients with probable AD but they are less impaired. Key Messages: DM deficits may be a predictor of cognitive impairment and conversion to dementia and its potential clinical value should be further explored in longitudinal studies involving direct comparison between MCI and AD patients.
meta-analysis	DEM464269	Association of Adherence to a Healthy Diet with Cognitive Decline in European and American Older Adults: A Meta-Analysis within the CHANCES Consortium Association of Adherence to a Healthy Diet with Cognitive Decline in European and American Older Adults: A Meta-Analysis within the CHANCES Consortium Aim: To examine the association between a healthy diet, assessed by the Healthy Diet Indicator (HDI), and cognitive decline in older adults. Methods: Data from 21,837 participants aged ≥55 years from 3 cohorts (Survey in Europe on Nutrition and the Elderly, a Concerted Action [SENECA], Rotterdam Study [RS], Nurses' Health Study [NHS]) were analyzed. HDI scores were based on intakes of saturated fatty acids, polyunsaturated fatty acids, mono- and disaccharides, protein, cholesterol, fruits and vegetables, and fiber. The Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status in NHS and Mini-Mental State Examination in RS and SENECA were used to assess cognitive function from multiple repeated measures. Using multivariable-adjusted, mixed linear regression, mean differences in annual rates of cognitive decline by HDI quintiles were estimated. Results: Multivariable-adjusted differences in rates in the highest versus the lowest HDI quintile were 0.01 (95% CI -0.01, 0.02) in NHS, 0.00 (95% CI -0.02, 0.01) in RS, and 0.00 (95% CI -0.05, 0.05) in SENECA with a pooled estimate of 0.00 (95% CI -0.01, 0.01), I2 = 0%. Conclusions: A higher HDI score was not related to reduced rates of cognitive decline in European and American older adults.
systematic-review	DEM490850	Quantitative Mobility Assessment for Fall Risk Prediction in Dementia: A Systematic Review Quantitative Mobility Assessment for Fall Risk Prediction in Dementia: A Systematic Review Background: Impairments of gait and balance often progress through the course of dementia, and are associated with increased risk of falls. Summary: This systematic review provides a critical analysis of the evidence linking quantitative measures of gait and balance to fall risk in older adults with dementia. Various instrumented measures of gait and postural stability including gait speed and non-instrumented performance measures including Timed Up and Go were shown to be capable of distinguishing fallers from non-fallers. Key Messages: Existing reviews indicate that impairments of gait and balance are associated with increased risk of falls in cognitively intact older people. There are inconsistencies, however, regarding the characteristics most predictive of a fall. In order to advance fall prevention efforts, there is an important need to understand the relationship between gait, balance, and fall risk, particularly in high-risk populations such as individuals with dementia.
review-article	DIB494365	An Algorithm for Digital Medicine Testing: A NODE.Health Perspective Intended to Help Emerging Technology Companies and Healthcare Systems Navigate the Trial and Testing Period prior to Full-Scale Adoption An Algorithm for Digital Medicine Testing: A NODE.Health Perspective Intended to Help Emerging Technology Companies and Healthcare Systems Navigate the Trial and Testing Period prior to Full-Scale Adoption Over the last several years, there has been rapid growth of digital technologies attempting to transform healthcare. Unique features of digital medicine technology lead to both challenges and opportunities for testing and validation. Yet little guidance exists to help a health system decide whether to undertake a pilot test of new technology, move right to full-scale adoption or start somewhere in between. To navigate this complexity, this paper proposes an algorithm to help choose the best path toward validation and adoption. Special attention is paid to considering whether the needs of patients with limited digital skills, equipment (e.g., smartphones) and connectivity (e.g., data plans) have been considered in technology development and deployment. The algorithm reflects the collective experience of 20+ health systems and academic institutions that have established the Network of Digital Evidence for Health, NODE.Health, plus insights from existing clinical research taxonomies, syntheses or frameworks for assessing technology or for reporting clinical trials.
systematic-review	DIG287215	Sedation by Non-Anesthesiologists: Are Opioids and Benzodiazepines Outdated? Sedation by Non-Anesthesiologists: Are Opioids and Benzodiazepines Outdated? At least 3 systematic reviews have assessed the safety of propofol versus traditional agents used for sedation in gastrointestinal endoscopic procedures. These reviews uncovered a marked variability in study design and found the quality of the included randomized controlled trials to be poor. To date there is no demonstrated difference in the endoscopic safety or efficacy of propofol sedation compared to sedation with benzodiazepine with or without an opioid. However, a trend towards reduced complications and higher levels of satisfaction and cost-effectiveness with propofol during colonoscopies, and higher levels of patient satisfaction and improved efficacy may also be expected by using propofol during upper gastrointestinal endoscopies.
systematic-review	DIG323958	Systematic Review of the Epidemiology of Complicated Peptic Ulcer Disease: Incidence, Recurrence, Risk Factors and Mortality Systematic Review of the Epidemiology of Complicated Peptic Ulcer Disease: Incidence, Recurrence, Risk Factors and Mortality Background/Aims: The incidence of uncomplicated peptic ulcer has decreased in recent years. It is unclear what the impact of this has been on the epidemiology of peptic ulcer complications. This systematic review aimed to determine the incidence, recurrence and mortality of complicated peptic ulcer and the risk factors associated with these events. Methods: Systematic PubMed searches. Results: Overall, 93 studies were identified. Annual incidence estimates of peptic ulcer hemorrhage and perforation were 19.4–57.0 and 3.8–14 per 100,000 individuals, respectively. The average 7-day recurrence of hemorrhage was 13.9% (95% CI: 8.4–19.4), and the average long-term recurrence of perforation was 12.2% (95% CI: 2.5–21.9). Risk factors for peptic ulcer complications and their recurrence included nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug and/or acetylsalicylic acid use, Helicobacter pylori infection and ulcer size ≧1 cm. Proton pump inhibitor use reduced the risk of peptic ulcer hemorrhage. Average 30-day mortality was 8.6% (95% CI: 5.8–11.4) after hemorrhage and 23.5% (95% CI: 15.5–31.0) after perforation. Older age, comorbidity, shock and delayed treatment were associated with increased mortality. Conclusions: Complicated peptic ulcer remains a substantial healthcare problem which places patients at a high risk of recurrent complications and death.
systematic-review	DIG329351	Helicobacter pylori Infection and the Respiratory System: A Systematic Review of the Literature Helicobacter pylori Infection and the Respiratory System: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background: Recent studies suggest an increased Helicobacter pylori prevalence in patients with various extradigestive inflammatory diseases. Similar to H. pylori infection, many respiratory diseases are characterized by chronic inflammation as well as increased immune response. Recent studies have evaluated the relation between various respiratory disorders and H. pylori infection. The aim of this systematic review was to scrutinize the relevant literature and the mechanisms that could underlie a role for H. pylori infection in respiratory diseases. Methods: Relevant literature regarding pathophysiological mechanisms and clinical epidemiology of H. pylori and different respiratory diseases has been systematically identified and analyzed by two independent reviewers according to a PubMed search for English language (until week 14, April 2010). Conclusions: At present, there is no definite proof of a causal relationship between H. pylori and respiratory diseases. Both H. pylori and various respiratory diseases are characterized by the release of proinflammatory cytokines and attraction of granulocytes as well as B- and T-cell-mediated response, though a pathophysiological association has not been proven. Neither the role of genetic predisposition of the host nor the presence of virulence factors nor the impact of H. pylori eradication have been studied in detail and definitely need further evaluation.
research-article	DIG371655	"Disease Duration Did Not Influence the Rates of Loss of Efficacy of the Anti-TNF Therapy in Latin American Crohn's Disease Patients Disease Duration Did Not Influence the Rates of Loss of Efficacy of the Anti-TNF Therapy in Latin American Crohn's Disease Patients Background/Aims: The efficacy of both Infliximab (IFX) and Adalimumab (ADA) can be reduced over time. The aim of this study was to analyze the incidence of loss of efficacy (LOE) of both IFX and ADA, and outline the influence of disease duration on its occurrence. Methods: Retrospective, multicenter, observational cohort study, with CD patients treated with anti-TNF therapy. LOE was defined as the need for steroids, occurrence of major abdominal surgery during treatment, dose increase, interval shortening or switching of the anti-TNF agent. Patients were allocated in three subgroups based on disease duration (DD): &lt;24 months, between 24 and 60 months and &gt;60 months. Results: 175 patients were included in the study (117 under IFX and 58 under ADA therapy). LOE occurred in 32% of patients with DD &lt;24 months, in 33.3% with DD between 24 and 60 months and in 31.3% of subjects with DD over 60 months (p = 0.975). Conclusions: Disease duration (DD) did not influence LOE rates. These results suggest that in real-world observational practice, patients with early CD might have the same rates of LOE than patients with a disease prolonging for a longer duration."
meta-analysis	DIG439215	"Evaluation of the Expanded Criteria of Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection for Early Gastric Cancers: A Meta-Analysis Evaluation of the Expanded Criteria of Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection for Early Gastric Cancers: A Meta-Analysis Background: In 2010, undifferentiated early-stage gastric cancers (EGCs; ≤1 cm and confined to the mucosa) were included in the expanded criteria for endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), as established by the Japanese Gastric Cancer Association. Objective: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of the newly expanded criteria of ESD for EGCs. Methods: PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library were searched for relevant studies published between January 1, 2010 and July 10, 2014. These studies were collected by 2 authors and then analyzed with RevMan 5.0. Results: Six studies including 6,687 patients were identified. Compared to the standard group (SG), the expanded group (EG) had higher bleeding (OR 1.66; 95% CI 1.02-2.68), perforation (OR 2.03; 95% CI 1.25-3.31), positive lateral margin rates (OR 16.88; 95% CI 3.83-74.5) and lower en bloc resection rate (OR 0.48; 95% CI 0.34-0.70). The local recurrence (OR 2.46; 95% CI 0.31-19.23) and total survival rates (OR 0.92; 95% CI 0.76-1.12) between the 2 groups were not statistically different. Conclusions: Considering the similar rates of local recurrence and total survival between the SG and EG, the use of ESD for the management of EGCs that meet the expanded criteria could be considered a safe and effective treatment method."
meta-analysis	DIG443683	"Doxycycline in Eradication Therapy of Helicobacter pylori - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Doxycycline in Eradication Therapy of Helicobacter pylori - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Since resistance of Helicobacter pylori is developing very fast all over the world, new treatment regimens for eradication are urgently needed. Aim: To compare eradication success rate of H. pylori treatment regimens with and without doxycycline. Methods: English medical literature searches were conducted for regimens including doxycycline for eradication of H. pylori. Searches were performed up to August 31, 2015, using MEDLINE, PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus and CENTRAL. Meta-analysis was performed by using comprehensive meta-analysis software. Pooled ORs and 95% CIs were calculated comparing treatment regimens for eradication of H. pylori infection with and without doxycycline. Results: The OR for eradication success rate in a fixed model was in favor for treatment regimens with doxycycline: 1.292, 95% CI 1.048-1.594, p = 0.016. There was no significant heterogeneity in the included studies: Q = 15.130, d.f. (Q) = 8, I2 = 47.126, p &gt; 0.10. When treatment regimens with doxycycline were compared only with treatment regimens with tetracycline, no significant difference was found in eradication success rate: OR 0.95, 95% CI 0.68-1.32, p = 0.77. But when treatment regimens with doxycycline were compared with treatment regimens without tetracycline, the OR in favor of doxycycline was even higher: OR 1.59, 95% CI 1.21-2.09, p &lt; 0.001. Conclusion: In this meta-analysis, we confirmed doxycycline efficiency in the eradication of H. pylori. Thus, triple, quadruple or even high dose dual therapy with regimens containing doxycycline should be considered."
case-report	DIG449284	"Endoscopic Diagnosis of the Invasion Depth of T1 Colorectal Carcinoma for Endoscopic Resection by Using Narrow-Band Imaging Magnification as Total Excisional Biopsy Endoscopic Diagnosis of the Invasion Depth of T1 Colorectal Carcinoma for Endoscopic Resection by Using Narrow-Band Imaging Magnification as Total Excisional Biopsy Background/Aims: We established a new colorectal T1 invasion depth sub-classification and evaluated it to determine whether total excisional biopsy can be performed on colorectal carcinoma (CRC) cases using narrow-band imaging (NBI) magnification. Methods: The cases included 73 T1 carcinomas selected from 173 early CRC cases. The T1 invasion depth sub-classification was defined as follows: T1a, invasion less than 1,000 μm from the inferior border of the muscularis mucosae; T1b-1, between T1a and T1b-2; and T1b-2, T1b lesions with invasion from the deepest part of the carcinoma to within 1,000 μm of the superior border of the muscularis propria. The T1b-2 lesions were not suitable for total excisional biopsy to be performed on them. We examined the maximum diameter of Type C2 (NBI Hiroshima classification) areas and invasion depth. Results: Among 47 lesions classified as Type C2, 38 lesions showed a maximum diameter of 10 mm or less and were classified as Tis, T1a, or T1b-1. The remaining 9 lesions exceeded 10 mm, and among these, 3 cases were classified as T1b-2 (p = 0.0035). Conclusion: For using the new T1 invasion depth sub-classification to classify T1 CRCs in which total excisional biopsy is possible, it is useful to measure the maximum diameter of the Type C2 area."
review-article	DIG452621	Ulcerative Colitis Ulcerative Colitis Background: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease that is chronically present in patients throughout their lives. Hence, the chronic nature of the disease invariably requires continuous medical treatment. Advances in medical therapy over the last decades and current developments offer increasing options and are closely associated with a better life quality in patients. Summary: Recent developments in understanding the pathogenesis of UC are discussed. The current standard therapeutic regimens are outlined and recent developments and upcoming strategies introduced. Key Points: (1) Environmental factors that are yet to be defined contribute to the pathogenesis of UC. (2) An accelerated step-up therapy represents the current standard in UC. (3) Anti-integrins represent the most recently introduced pharmacological class in the therapy of UC. (4) Novel strategies including Janus kinase inhibitors are in the near future.
review-article	DIG490508	The Present Status and Future of Barrett’s Esophageal Adenocarcinoma in Japan The Present Status and Future of Barrett’s Esophageal Adenocarcinoma in Japan Background: The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma in Europe and the United States rapidly increased from the latter half of the 1970s and exceeded that of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in the latter half of the 1990s, currently accounting for approximately 60% of all esophageal carcinomas. Recently, its incidence has also increased in Japan, raising concerns that it will follow a course similar to that in Europe and the United States. Summary: The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma in Japan was about 2% until the 1990s, but in recent years, it has risen to 6.5–7.1%. Causes include the increase in the incidence of obesity due to changes in eating habits with resultant increases in the incidence of hiatal hernia and reflux esophagitis, a decrease in the rate of Helicobacter pylori infection, and the increased interest of physicians in the gastroesophageal junction. The number of gastroesophageal reflux disease patients in Japan rapidly increased from the 1990s, which accordingly increased the number of Barrett’s esophageal adenocarcinoma patients from the latter half of the 1990s. Tabulation and analysis of 1,794 reported cases of Barrett’s esophageal adenocarcinoma in Japan showed that superficial cancers accounted for 77.6%, and that the concomitant rates of hiatal hernia and reflux esophagitis were high at 87 and 70% respectively. Key Message: The future trend in the incidence of Barrett’s esophageal adenocarcinoma in Japan will depend on the increase in the incidence of reflux esophagitis, which is essential for the development of Barrett’s esophagus and Barrett’s esophageal carcinoma. The obesity rate is lower in Japan than that in Europe and the United States, and the incidence and severity of reflux esophagitis are low. We expect that the incidence of Barrett’s esophageal adenocarcinoma in Japan will not rise as high as in Europe and the United States, and will remain below 10%.
case-report	DIG493095	Clinical and Pathological Challenges in the Diagnosis of Gastric-Type Differentiated Adenocarcinoma in the Stomach: A Study of Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Cases Clinical and Pathological Challenges in the Diagnosis of Gastric-Type Differentiated Adenocarcinoma in the Stomach: A Study of Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Cases Background/Aims: Gastric-type differentiated adenocarcinoma (GDA) of the stomach is a rare variant of gastric cancer that is highly infiltrating and exhibits early metastasis. However, the endoscopic and pathological features of “early-stage” GDA remain unknown. The aim of this study is to characterize early-stage GDA. Methods: We retrospectively enrolled 479 differentiated-type early gastric cancer cases who underwent endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). GDA cases were selected based on morphology and immunohistochemistry. Clinicopathological data were compared between gastric- and intestinal-type differentiated adenocarcinomas (IDAs). Results: Thirteen lesions were classified as GDAs. GDAs as well as IDAs showed irregular microvascular and microsurface patterns with clear demarcation line on magnifying endoscopy with narrow band imaging (M-NBI). The rate of pathological misdiagnosis of GDAs in biopsy specimens was higher than that of IDAs (p = 0.016). GDA was significantly associated with positive lymphovascular invasion (p = 0.016). There was one intramucosal lesion with lymphatic invasion in GDA. Conclusions: Although M-NBI is useful to detect GDA, the pathological diagnosis of GDAs in biopsy specimens often remains challenging. When suspicious lesions are not diagnosed as GDA, they should be followed up intensively, or diagnostic ESD has to be performed. ESD specimens should be carefully evaluated because of a higher incidence of lymphovascular invasion.
research-article	DIG494969	Gankyrin Contributes to Tumorigenesis and Chemoresistance in Sporadic Colorectal Cancer Gankyrin Contributes to Tumorigenesis and Chemoresistance in Sporadic Colorectal Cancer Background: Although Gankyrin is overexpressed in many malignancies, the role of Gankyrin for tumorigenesis and chemoresistance remains to be elucidated in sporadic colorectal cancer (CRC). Aims: We investigate whether Gankyrin affects Adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc) inactivation-induced tumorigenesis and therapeutic response to anti-angiogenic agents. Methods: Epithelial cell-specific APC and/or Gankyrin-deficient mice were used. The patients with metastatic CRC (n = 53) who were enrolled in this study underwent resection of primary cancer followed by systemic chemotherapy containing bevacizumab. We determined whether gene expression in CRC tissues before chemotherapy is associated with radiological responses. Results: Deletion of Gankyrin in epithelial cell reduced the expression of c-Myc, a critical mediator of the APC signaling pathway, and interleukin-6. Gankyrin deficiency decreased the expression of Bmi1, a downstream molecule of c-Myc, and the activity of V-Akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase, leading to reduced Apc inactivation-induced tumorigenesis. Of 53 patients, 38 (72%) had increased Gankyrin expression in tumor cells. The enhanced Gankyrin expression in tumor cells was associated with unfavorable progression-free survival (log-rank test p = 0.026). Conclusion: Gankyrin in epithelial cell contributes to the development of sporadic CRC and the expression could serve as a biomarker to predict therapeutic response in patients with metastatic CRC.
research-article	DIG495503	"Shorter Relapse-Free Period after Leukocyte Removal Therapy in Younger than Older Patients with Ulcerative Colitis Shorter Relapse-Free Period after Leukocyte Removal Therapy in Younger than Older Patients with Ulcerative Colitis Background: Leukocyte removal therapy (LRT) is an effective treatment for active ulcerative colitis (UC). The present study was performed to evaluate the relapse-free period after LRT and identify risk factors for relapse. Methods: In total, 94 patients who underwent first-time LRT for remission of moderate to severe UC from April 2004 to March 2016 were enrolled in the present study. The patients were randomly assigned to one of 2 treatments: leukocytapheresis (LCAP; n = 43) or granulocyte and monocyte/macrophage adsorptive apheresis (GMA; n = 51). The 5-year cumulative relapse-free rate and risk factors for relapse were evaluated. Results: The therapeutic response rate was 82% for GMA and 70% for LCAP without a statistically significant difference. The 5-year relapse-free rate was 34.7% in the LRT group. The 5-year relapse-free rate in patients aged &"
review-article	DNE274458	Differential Modulation of Sonic-Hedgehog-Induced Cerebellar Granule Cell Precursor Proliferation by the IGF Signaling Network Differential Modulation of Sonic-Hedgehog-Induced Cerebellar Granule Cell Precursor Proliferation by the IGF Signaling Network The molecular mechanisms regulating organ growth and size remain unclear. Sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling is a major player in the regulation of cerebellar development: SHH is secreted by Purkinje neurons and acts on the proliferation of granule cell precursors (GCPs) in the external germinal layer. These then become postmitotic and form the internal granular layer but do so in the presence of SHH ligand, begging the question of how the proliferative response to SHH signaling is downregulated in differentiating GCPs. Here, we have determined the precise cellular localization of the expression of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) network components in the developing mouse cerebellum and show that this network modulates the proliferative effects of SHH signaling on GCPs. IGF1 and IGF2 are potent mitogens for GCPs and both synergize with SHH in inducing GCP proliferation. Whereas the proliferative activity of IGF1 or IGF2 on GCPs does not require intact SHH signaling, aspects of SHH activity on GCP proliferation require signaling through the IGF receptor 1. Moreover, we find that 3 of the IGF-binding proteins, IGFBP2, IGFBP3 and IGFBP5, inhibit IGF1/2-induced cell proliferation, whereas IGFBP5 also inhibits SHH-induced GCPs proliferation. This novel function of IGFBP5 that we have uncovered demonstrates the exquisite regulation of SHH signaling by different components of the IGF network.
research-article	DNE346367	Prenatal Expression of MET Receptor Tyrosine Kinase in the Fetal Mouse Dorsal Raphe Nuclei and the Visceral Motor/Sensory Brainstem Prenatal Expression of MET Receptor Tyrosine Kinase in the Fetal Mouse Dorsal Raphe Nuclei and the Visceral Motor/Sensory Brainstem Signaling via MET receptor tyrosine kinase (MET) has been implicated in a number of neurodevelopmental events, including cell migration, dendritic and axonal development and synaptogenesis. Related to its role in the development of forebrain circuitry, we recently identified a functional promoter variant of the MET gene that is associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The association of the MET promoter variant rs1858830 C allele is significantly enriched in families with a child who has ASD and co-occurring gastrointestinal conditions. The expression of MET in the forebrain had been mapped in detail in the developing mouse and rhesus macaque. However, in mammals, its expression in the developing brainstem has not been studied extensively throughout developmental stages. Brainstem and autonomic circuitry are implicated in ASD pathophysiology and in gastrointestinal dysfunction. To advance our understanding of the neurodevelopmental influences of MET signaling in brainstem circuitry development, we employed in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to map the expression of Met and its ligand, Hgf, through prenatal development of the mouse midbrain and hindbrain. Our results reveal a highly selective expression pattern of Met in the brainstem, including a subpopulation of neurons in cranial motor nuclei (nVII, nA and nXII), B6 subgroup of the dorsal raphe, Barrington's nucleus, and a small subset of neurons in the nucleus of solitary tract. In contrast to Met, neither full-length nor known splice variants of Hgf were localized in the prenatal brainstem. RT-PCR revealed Hgf expression in target tissues of Met-expressing brainstem neurons, suggesting that MET in these neurons may be activated by HGF from peripheral sources. Together, these data suggest that MET signaling may influence the development of neurons that are involved in central regulation of gastrointestinal function, tongue movement, swallowing, speech, stress and mood.
systematic-review	DNE362206	Magnesium Is Not Consistently Neuroprotective for Perinatal Hypoxia-Ischemia in Term-Equivalent Models in Preclinical Studies: A Systematic Review Magnesium Is Not Consistently Neuroprotective for Perinatal Hypoxia-Ischemia in Term-Equivalent Models in Preclinical Studies: A Systematic Review There is an important unmet need to further improve the outcome of neonatal encephalopathy in term infants. Meta-analyses of large controlled trials now suggest that maternal magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) therapy is associated with a reduced risk of cerebral palsy and gross motor dysfunction after premature birth, but that it has no effect on death or disability. Because of this inconsistency, it remains controversial whether MgSO4 is clinically neuroprotective and, thus, it is unclear whether it would be appropriate to test MgSO4 for treatment of encephalopathy in term infants. We therefore systematically reviewed the preclinical evidence for neuroprotection with MgSO4 before or after hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) in term-equivalent perinatal and adult animals. The outcomes were highly inconsistent between studies. Although there were differences in dose and timing of administration, there was evidence that beneficial effects of MgSO4 were associated with confounding mild hypothermia and, strikingly, the studies that included rigorous maintenance of environmental temperature or body temperature consistently suggested a lack of effect. On balance, these preclinical studies suggest that peripherally administered MgSO4 is unlikely to be neuroprotective. Rigorous testing in translational animal models of perinatal HIE is needed before MgSO4 should be considered in clinical trials for encephalopathy in term infants.
research-article	DNE368396	Administration of Umbilical Cord Blood Cells Transiently Decreased Hypoxic-Ischemic Brain Injury in Neonatal Rats Administration of Umbilical Cord Blood Cells Transiently Decreased Hypoxic-Ischemic Brain Injury in Neonatal Rats This study aimed to investigate whether the administration of mononuclear cells derived from human umbilical cord blood cells (UCBCs) could ameliorate hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in a neonatal rat model. The left carotid arteries of 7-day-old rats were ligated, and the rats were then exposed to 8% oxygen for 60 min. Mononuclear cells derived from UCBCs using the Ficoll-Hypaque technique were injected intraperitoneally 6 h after the insult (1.0 × 107 cells). Twenty-four hours after the insult, the number of cells positive for the oxidative stress markers 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal and nitrotyrosine, in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in the UCBC-treated group, decreased by 36 and 42%, respectively, compared with those in the control group. In addition, the number of cells positive for the apoptosis markers active caspase-3 and apoptosis-inducing factor decreased by 53 and 58%, respectively. The number of activated microglia (ED1-positive cells) was 51% lower in the UCBC group compared with the control group. In a gait analysis performed 2 weeks after the insult, there were no significant differences among the sham-operated, control and UCBC groups. An active avoidance test using a shuttle box the following week also revealed no significant differences among the groups. Neither the volumes of the hippocampi, corpus callosum and cortices nor the numbers of neurons in the hippocampus were different between the UCBC and control groups. In summary, a single intraperitoneal injection of UCBC-derived mononuclear cells 6 h after an ischemic insult was associated with a transient reduction in numbers of apoptosis and oxidative stress marker-positive cells, but it did not induce long-term morphological or functional protection. Repeated administration or a combination treatment may be required to achieve sustained protection.
research-article	DNE371344	"Intrauterine Growth Restriction: Effects on Neural Precursor Cell Proliferation and Angiogenesis in the Foetal Subventricular Zone Intrauterine Growth Restriction: Effects on Neural Precursor Cell Proliferation and Angiogenesis in the Foetal Subventricular Zone Exposure to adverse prenatal factors can result in abnormal brain development, contributing to the aetiology of several neurological disorders. Intrauterine insults could occur during neurogenesis and gliogenesis, disrupting these events. Here we investigate the effects of chronic placental insufficiency (CPI) on cell proliferation and the microenvironment in the subventricular zone (SVZ). At 30 days of gestation (DG; term ∼67 DG), CPI was induced in pregnant guinea pigs via unilateral uterine artery ligation to produce growth-restricted (GR) foetuses (n = 7); controls (n = 6) were from the unoperated horn. At 60 DG, foetal brains were stained immunohistochemically to identify proliferating cells (Ki67), immature neurons (polysialylated neuronal cell adhesion molecule), astrocytes (glial fibrillary acidic protein), microglia (ionised calcium-binding adaptor molecule-1, Iba-1) and the microvasculature (von Willebrand factor) in the SVZ. There was no overall difference (p &gt; 0.05) in the total number of Ki67-immunoreactive (IR) cells, the percentage of SVZ occupied by blood vessels or the density of Iba-1-IR microglia in control versus GR foetuses. However, regression analysis across both groups revealed that both the number of Ki67-IR cells and the percentage of SVZ occupied by blood vessels in the ventral SVZ were negatively correlated (p &lt; 0.05) with brain weight. Furthermore, in the SVZ (dorsal and ventral) the density of blood vessels positively correlated (p &lt; 0.05) with the number of Ki67-IR cells. Double-labelling immunofluorescence suggested that the majority of proliferating cells were likely to be neural precursor cells. Thus, we have demonstrated an association between angiogenesis and neurogenesis in the foetal neurogenic niche and have identified a window of opportunity for the administration of trophic support to enhance a neuroregenerative response."
research-article	DNE444748	Ephrin-B/EphB Signaling Is Required for Normal Innervation of Lingual Gustatory Papillae Ephrin-B/EphB Signaling Is Required for Normal Innervation of Lingual Gustatory Papillae The innervation of taste buds is an excellent model system for studying the guidance of axons during targeting because of their discrete nature and the high fidelity of innervation. The pregustatory epithelium of fungiform papillae is known to secrete diffusible axon guidance cues such as BDNF and Sema3A that attract and repel, respectively, geniculate ganglion axons during targeting, but diffusible factors alone are unlikely to explain how taste axon terminals are restricted to their territories within the taste bud. Nondiffusible cell surface proteins such as Ephs and ephrins can act as receptors and/or ligands for one another and are known to control axon terminal positioning in several parts of the nervous system, but they have not been studied in the gustatory system. We report that ephrin-B2 linked β-galactosidase staining and immunostaining was present along the dorsal epithelium of the mouse tongue as early as embryonic day 15.5 (E15.5), but was not detected at E14.5, when axons first enter the epithelium. Ephrin-B1 immunolabeling was barely detected in the epithelium and found at a somewhat higher concentration in the mesenchyme subjacent to the epithelium. EphB1 and EphB2 were detected in lingual sensory afferents in vivo and geniculate neurites in vitro. Ephrin-B1 and ephrin-B2 were similarly effective in repelling or suppressing outgrowth by geniculate neurites in vitro. These in vitro effects were independent of the neurotrophin used to promote outgrowth, but were reduced by elevated levels of laminin. In vivo, mice null for EphB1 and EphB2 exhibited decreased gustatory innervation of fungiform papillae. These data provide evidence that ephrin-B forward signaling is necessary for normal gustatory innervation of the mammalian tongue.
review-article	DNE452859	"In the Era of Therapeutic Hypothermia, How Well Do Studies of Perinatal Neuroprotection Control Temperature? In the Era of Therapeutic Hypothermia, How Well Do Studies of Perinatal Neuroprotection Control Temperature? In the era of therapeutic hypothermia, reliable preclinical studies are integral to successfully identify neuroprotective strategies to further improve outcomes of encephalopathy at term. We reviewed preclinical neuroprotection studies reported between January 2014 and June 2016 to assess the use of effective temperature monitoring and control. As a secondary measure, we examined whether studies addressed other methodological issues such as stage of brain development, sex differences, the timing of the treatment relative to the insult, and the histological and functional endpoints used after hypoxia-ischemia. The extent and duration of temperature monitoring was highly inconsistent. Only a minority of papers monitored core (19/61; 31%) or brain temperature (3/61; 5%). Most (40/45) of the neuroprotectants either were likely to affect thermoregulation or their impact is unknown. In 85% of papers neonatal rodents were used (67% at P7); 51% of papers did not report the sex of the animals or tested the effect of potential neuroprotectants on just one sex. In 76% of studies, treatment was before or immediately after the insult (within the first 2 h), and few studies assessed long-term histological and behavioral outcomes. In conclusion, many recent preclinical neonatal studies cannot exclude the possibility that apparent neuroprotection might be related to drug-induced hypothermia or to other methodological choices. Close monitoring and control of brain temperature during, as well as for many days after, experimental hypoxia-ischemia are now critical to reliably develop new ways to improve neurodevelopmental outcomes after perinatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy."
review-article	DNE493009	c-Jun N-Terminal Kinase Inhibition Induces Mitochondrial Oxidative Stress and Decreases Survival in Human Neural Stem Progenitors c-Jun N-Terminal Kinase Inhibition Induces Mitochondrial Oxidative Stress and Decreases Survival in Human Neural Stem Progenitors Neural stem cells are attracting enormous attention in regenerative medicine due to their ability to self-renew and differentiate into the cell lineages that constitute the central nervous system. However, little is known about the mechanism underlying the regulation of their redox environment, which is essential for homeostatic cellular functions. The redox-modulated c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) are a molecular switch in stress signal transduction and are involved in numerous brain functions. Using a selective but broad-spectrum inhibitor of JNK 1/2/3, we investigated the role of JNK in regulating the levels of reactive oxygen species in mitochondria, mitochondrial membrane potential, viability, proliferation and lineage alterations in human H9-derived neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPs). Relative to diluent control, incubation of the NSPs for 24 h with SP600125, an anthrapyrazolone inhibitor of JNK, resulted in increased abundance of mitochondrial superoxide radicals (p &
research-article	DNE493637	"Infants Uniquely Express High Levels of RBM3 and Other Cold-Adaptive Neuroprotectant Proteins in the Human Brain Infants Uniquely Express High Levels of RBM3 and Other Cold-Adaptive Neuroprotectant Proteins in the Human Brain Neuroprotective cold-shock proteins (CSPs) are abundant in the normothermic neonatal rodent brain but decrease with advancing neurodevelopmental age and are low or absent in the adult brain. It has not been established if neurodevelopmental age alters the baseline expression of CSPs in the human brain. Here, we tested the hypothesis that protein levels of RNA-binding motif 3 (RBM3), reticulon-3 (RTN3), and cold-induced RNA-binding protein (CIRBP) are abundant in the normothermic developing human brain but low-to-absent in adults. We also tested if β-klotho (KLB) is expressed in the developing brain; KLB functions as a coreceptor that controls tissue-specific binding and activity of the systemically circulating thermogenic hormone fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21), and is predominantly expressed in the liver, pancreas, and in adipose cells. Methods: Hippocampi and anterior prefrontal cortices (aPFCs/BA10) from a total of 20 male and 20 female subjects were obtained from the NIH NeuroBioBank. CSP and KLB levels were measured in: infants &"
case-report	DPA442708	Psammomatous Melanotic Schwannoma: A Challenging Histological Diagnosis Psammomatous Melanotic Schwannoma: A Challenging Histological Diagnosis Psammomatous melanotic schwannoma (PMS) is a rare pigmented tumor that can be part of the Carney complex. Here, we describe the case of a 35-year-old female patient presenting an isolated subcutaneous PMS. Histopathological analysis could not formally exclude the malignant nature of the tumor. The challenging histological diagnosis and consequently the management of the patient are described.
case-report	DPA491923	An Ulcerated Reddish Nodule of the Chest: When You See, Think … An Ulcerated Reddish Nodule of the Chest: When You See, Think … A 97-year-old man with a previous personal history of multiple nonmelanoma skin cancers presented with a fast-growing, ulcerated reddish nodule on his chest. The nodule was surgically removed, and hematoxylin and eosin stains of the specimen showed an asymmetrical, nonpigmented lesion with architectural and structural impairment, round cells with clear, whitish, foamy cytoplasm, multiple dermal mitoses and nuclear pleomorphism. Our first hypothesis was sebaceous carcinoma, a rare malignant neoplasm derived from epithelial cells showing sebaceous differentiation. A further histopathologic examination showed the presence of pigment in a few areas of the neoplasm. On immunohistochemical study, neoplastic cells were negative for wide-spectrum cytokeratin and diffusely positive for S-100, MART-1, and HMB-45 proteins. Our final diagnosis was nodular malignant melanoma (MM) with balloon epithelioid cells, a “bizarre” presentation of MM in vertical growth phase, mimicking metastatic and primary neoplasms of different lineage derivations.
systematic-review	DRM329026	Adherence in the Treatment of Psoriasis: A Systematic Review Adherence in the Treatment of Psoriasis: A Systematic Review Background: Medication adherence and compliance are essential for disease management and can significantly improve outcomes and quality of patient care. The literature suggests that up to 40% of patients do not use their medication as intended. Objective: To elucidate current knowledge on adherence/compliance in psoriasis. In particular, methods of adherence/compliance evaluation and influencing factors were to be identified. Methods: Systematic literature review based on a protocol-rooted search in online databases, followed by a structured critical appraisal and consecutive descriptive report. Results: Thirty-five original publications on adherence/compliance in psoriasis were identified, addressing the extent and quality of adherence/compliance in topical, systemic and UV treatments. Estimates of compliance varied considerably between 27 and 97%. Age, sex, psychosocial, disease-specific and treatment-specific factors were identified as predictors of adherence/compliance. Conclusion: A better understanding of the determinants of adherence can improve the outcomes of psoriasis treatment and lead to higher patient satisfaction and quality of care.
research-article	DRM346640	Effectiveness of Infliximab in Pityriasis Rubra Pilaris Is Associated with Pro-Inflammatory Cytokine Inhibition Effectiveness of Infliximab in Pityriasis Rubra Pilaris Is Associated with Pro-Inflammatory Cytokine Inhibition Background: Pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP) is a rare inflammatory skin disease. Recently, the use of anti-TNF-α in treating resistant forms of PRP has been reported. Objectives: To evaluate the clinical efficacy of infliximab in the treatment of PRP along with the evolution of secretion of some serum cytokines during treatment. Methods: Patients presenting widespread PRP were included consecutively and treated with infliximab. We compared cytokine profiles (notably CXCL-10 and TNF-α) by ELISA in sera from both patients with PRP and controls (healthy/psoriasis) at the time of diagnosis and after clinical remission (PRP). Results: 4 patients were treated with infliximab and achieved complete remission without any recurrence after treatment ending. The serum level of TNF-α and CXCL-10 was increased at the time of inclusion and normalized after treatment. Analysis of the typical component of the T helper cell 1 (Th1) and Th2 cytokine network did not show modification. Conclusion: Infliximab is an effective treatment of PRP. The analysis of the cytokine profile is in agreement with an absence of further recurrence of PRP by an early and unique inflammatory mechanism without significant underlying autoimmunity.
research-article	DRM368749	Trepanation or Complete Removal of the Outer Table of the Calvarium for Granulation Induction: The Erbium:YAG Laser as an Alternative to the Rose Head Burr Trepanation or Complete Removal of the Outer Table of the Calvarium for Granulation Induction: The Erbium:YAG Laser as an Alternative to the Rose Head Burr Background: Large scalp defects devoid of periosteum following tumor excisions are a surgical challenge. In this case, drilling the outer table of the calvarium with a rose head burr is a standard method to induce granulation tissue. Objectives: We describe an alternative for trepanation or complete removal of the outer table of the calvarium. Methods: We demonstrate the use of an erbium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (erbium:YAG) laser for the induction of granulation tissue, compare this technique with the standard procedure and evaluate the benefits and limitations. Results: The erbium:YAG laser is an excellent method for trepanation or complete removal of the outer table of the calvarium and induction of granulation tissue. Conclusion: The use of the laser for trepanation of the calvarium gives results comparable to those of the rose head burr for inducing granulation tissue but has its benefits. Therefore, this method should become a standard alternative to the known procedure.
research-article	DRM370045	"Semicircular Lipoatrophy: An Electrostatic Hypothesis Semicircular Lipoatrophy: An Electrostatic Hypothesis Background: Semicircular lipoatrophy (SL) is a benign pathology characterized by subcutaneous adipose tissue atrophy. Objective: To determine causes of SL. Methods: We performed research on 42 cases of SL who had developed symptoms of lipoatrophy with a technical study of the building and clinical study of the affected patients. Results: Electromagnetic field and electrostatic charge measurements were performed. No signals different from typical radio, TV and other wireless communication devices were recorded. Electrostatic charges were recorded in floors, environments and on different furniture; they were positive, and all charges disappeared on contact with the worker's skin. Data about the workplace were collected, and clinical examinations were performed, including blood and biochemistry tests and 18 ultrasound skin tests. Conclusions: As no abnormal electromagnetic measurements were found and electrostatic changes and occupational behaviors showed some relevant data and as after changes in order to control the electrostatic environment all of them improved, we can conclude that electrostatic charges but not electromagnetic ones are the main cause of SL."
research-article	DRM371814	Distinct Conditions Support a Novel Classification for Bradykinin-Mediated Angio-Oedema Distinct Conditions Support a Novel Classification for Bradykinin-Mediated Angio-Oedema Background: Angio-oedema (AO) can be attributable to bradykinin (BK) accumulation, as is the case for prototypical hereditary AO (HAO) due to C1 inhibitor (C1-INH) deficiency. However, our clinical experience in a reference centre has shown that some patients display a clinical history suggestive of HAO, but exhibit normal C1-INH function, have no mutation in the causative genes associated with HAO (SERPING1, F12), and report no intake of drugs known to promote AO. Objective: We sought to determine the frequency and distribution of different AO subtypes suspected to be BK-mediated AO (BK-AO) and defined by clinical, history and biological criteria (enzyme activities implicated in BK formation and catabolism). Methods: The files of all patients referred to our centre for suspected BK-AO were retrospectively analysed. Results: The distribution of patients (n = 162) was 16 and 4% with a hereditary deficiency of C1-INH or a gain of factor XII function, respectively, 29% with iatrogenic BK-AO, 21% with non-iatrogenic defective kininase activity and 30% with idiopathic increased kinin formation. Conclusion: BK-AO may be caused by multiple inherited or acquired factors triggering BK accumulation. Therefore, we propose a novel typology for BK-AO based on the imbalance of production/catabolism of BK.
research-article	DRM371877	"Decreased Number of Circulating Endothelial Progenitor Cells in Hidradenitis Suppurativa Patients Decreased Number of Circulating Endothelial Progenitor Cells in Hidradenitis Suppurativa Patients Background: Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is nowadays regarded as a systemic disease associated with metabolic syndrome. Some recent studies have also demonstrated an increased cardiovascular risk in patients with HS. Circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) play an integral role in the regulation and protection of the endothelium and in the maintenance of vascular homeostasis. Objective: This study was undertaken to determine the possible alterations in the number of EPCs in patients with HS compared to controls. Methods: The number of EPCs, identified as CD133+/KDR+ cells, was determined with flow cytometry in the peripheral blood of 25 HS patients and 31 controls. Results: The number of EPCs was significantly reduced in HS sufferers compared with controls (p &lt; 0.0001). The mean number of EPCs was assessed as 191.3 ± 118.5/ml and 672.4 ± 343.0/ml for patients and controls, respectively. Conclusion: A decreased number of EPCs among HS sufferers may contribute to endothelial malfunction resulting in increased cardiovascular risk in this group of patients."
research-article	DRM371881	Real-World Outcome Analysis of Continuously and Intermittently Treated Patients with Moderate to Severe Psoriasis after Switching to a Biologic Agent Real-World Outcome Analysis of Continuously and Intermittently Treated Patients with Moderate to Severe Psoriasis after Switching to a Biologic Agent Background: Clinical studies of continuous versus intermittent biologic therapy for moderate to severe psoriasis demonstrate improved efficacy with continuous treatment. Objective: To analyse Swedish real-world data of continuously and intermittently treated biologic-naïve patients after switching to a biologic agent. Methods: This is an observational study based on PsoReg, the Swedish registry for systemic psoriasis treatment. Outcome effects in biologic-naïve patients who switched to a biologic agent (n = 351) were analysed in groups of continuous, intermittent and terminated treatment. Results: Intermittently treated patients (n = 50) reported higher Psoriasis Area and Severity Index and Dermatology Life Quality Index values after switching than patients with continuous (n = 260) or terminated treatment (n = 41). Study Limitations: The reason for intermittent treatment was not recorded. The intermittently treated patients may be a heterogeneous group and a limitation is that it cannot be determined whether less than continuous use was offered to handle negative aspects. Conclusion: Patients with continuous biologic treatment tend to achieve better outcomes compared to intermittently treated patients.
research-article	DRM375370	"The Effect of Different Doses of Isotretinoin on Pituitary Hormones The Effect of Different Doses of Isotretinoin on Pituitary Hormones Background: There are a limited number of studies investigating the side effects and effectiveness of various doses of isotretinoin (ISO). We have previously shown that high-dose ISO affects pituitary hormones. Objectives: To our knowledge, there is no study in the literature looking into the effects of various doses of ISO on pituitary hormones. We searched pituitary hormones in three groups of different doses in acne patients. Methods: We included 105 acne vulgaris patients from two different centers. We divided the patients into three groups; the first group received 0.5-1 mg/kg/day, the second 0.2-0.5 mg/kg/day and the third intermittent 0.5-1 mg/kg/day (only 1 week in 1 month) ISO treatment. Blood samples were collected for biochemistry and hormone analysis, before the treatment and after 3 months. Results: After 3 months of treatment with ISO, luteinizing hormone (LH) (p &lt; 0.001), prolactin (p &lt; 0.001), total testosterone (p &lt; 0.001), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (p &lt; 0.001), cortisol (p &lt; 0.001), insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 (p &lt; 0.001), insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) (p = 0.002), growth hormone (GH) (p = 0.002) and free T3 (fT3) (p &lt; 0.001) levels had decreased significantly. Furthermore, we split data into three different groups. Among the patients receiving intermittent-dose ISO, LH, ACTH, IGF-1, GH and fT3 measurements lost significance. Most of the significant measurements observed in the whole group were also significant among the patients receiving high-dose ISO. Additionally, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (p = 0.003) levels increased, and free T4 levels decreased significantly. Conclusions: ISO affects pituitary hormones at all of these three doses. The differences in pituitary hormones are more pronounced in high-dose treatment. The weakest effect was observed in the intermittent-dose group. Choosing lower doses of ISO may decrease side effects, however the effectiveness of the treatment may also be diminished. ISO, by affecting the PPAR&"
meta-analysis	DRM381948	"Efficacy and Safety of Tacrolimus versus Pimecrolimus for the Treatment of Atopic Dermatitis in Children: A Network Meta-Analysis Efficacy and Safety of Tacrolimus versus Pimecrolimus for the Treatment of Atopic Dermatitis in Children: A Network Meta-Analysis Objective: Using a network meta-analysis, we aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of tacrolimus and pimecrolimus as treatment options for children with atopic dermatitis (AD). Methods: Randomized controlled studies with a modified Jadad score &gt;3 using tacrolimus or pimecrolimus in pediatric patients with AD were studied. Results: Out of 163 articles, 19 studies enrolling a total of 6,413 pediatric patients were selected. Pooled analysis revealed that tacrolimus 0.03% or 0.1% and pimecrolimus 1% were better at reducing eczema compared with vehicles. No significance was found between tacrolimus and pimecrolimus in improving the severity of eczema. More patients tended to withdraw in the vehicle groups compared to the tacrolimus and pimecrolimus groups. No significant difference existed between total adverse events and withdrawals in the tacrolimus and pimecrolimus groups. Conclusions: Pimecrolimus was similar to tacrolimus in both efficacy and safety for AD in children, but both were better than vehicles."
research-article	DRM444051	Squamocellular Carcinoma of the Skin: Clinicopathological Features Predicting the Involvement of the Surgical Margins and Review of the Literature Squamocellular Carcinoma of the Skin: Clinicopathological Features Predicting the Involvement of the Surgical Margins and Review of the Literature Background: The new AJCC classification has highlighted some particular risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) relevant for prognosis. Incomplete excision is not infrequent in SCC. The aim of this study is to examine features that can predict an incomplete excision on the basis of the new AJCC classification and to review the literature on this topic. Materials and Methods: 81 SCC patients were included. All patients were submitted to excisional biopsy with a margin of at least 4 mm from the clinical edges as recommended. Histological characteristics of the lesions analysed were maximum diameter, grading, site, Breslow thickness, Clark level, deep tissue invasion (neural, bone, muscle), presence of ulceration and positivity of the margins. Results: The average Breslow thickness was 3.93 mm. Out of the 81 patients included, 14 showed involved margins. The 2 parameters that were implicated in predicting involvement of the margins in the multivariable model were Breslow thickness and location of the lesion on the ear or lip. Grading was not associated with involvement of margins. Conclusion: According to the new AJCC classification, this study could be useful to plan the most suitable surgical technique in order to avoid the risk of incomplete surgery.
research-article	DRM444218	"Investigation of Enthesopathy with Ultrasonography and Comparison with Skin Findings in Asymptomatic Psoriatic Patients Investigation of Enthesopathy with Ultrasonography and Comparison with Skin Findings in Asymptomatic Psoriatic Patients Background: Joint involvement associated with psoriasis is referred to as psoriatic arthritis. A late diagnosis of psoriatic arthritis may cause a variety of morbidities; therefore, an early diagnosis and treatment of psoriatic arthritis are required. Asymptomatic psoriatic arthritis has been found in 8-70% of patients with psoriasis using imaging techniques. Objective: To investigate joint and enthesis regions by ultrasonography in patients with psoriasis without inflammatory joint symptoms to detect subclinical psoriatic arthritis. Methods: We included 50 psoriasis patients and 30 healthy control subjects without joint complaint in this study. Twelve joint regions of all subjects in each group were examined by ultrasonography. Results: The presence of any pathological ultrasonography finding (30%) was higher but did not significantly differ in psoriasis patients compared with the control group (13.33%; p &gt; 0.05). Conclusion: Although statistically not significant, the pathological ultrasonography findings were approximately twofold more common in patients with psoriasis compared with the control group. Therefore, the development of psoriatic arthritis in patients with psoriasis should be more closely followed."
systematic-review	DRM446069	"How Much Do We Know about Maintaining Treatment Response after Successful Acne Therapy? Systematic Review on the Efficacy and Safety of Acne Maintenance Therapy How Much Do We Know about Maintaining Treatment Response after Successful Acne Therapy? Systematic Review on the Efficacy and Safety of Acne Maintenance Therapy After cessation of successful initial acne therapy, patients often experience flares. Consecutive maintenance treatment after successful induction therapy is promoted by guidelines; however, little is known about the efficacy/safety of different maintenance regimens. A systematic review on acne maintenance treatments was conducted. We identified 5 randomized controlled trials [RCTs; adapalene vs. vehicle or vs. no treatment (3 RCTs), adapalene/benzoyl peroxide (BPO) vs. vehicle, combination/monotherapy of minocycline (systemic)/tazarotene/placebo] and 3 non-RCTs on systemic isotretinoin, adapalene/BPO and azelaic acid. The results of adapalene versus vehicle/no treatment varied depending on the reported outcome. The ‘number of patients maintaining at least 50% improvement' counting inflammatory lesions/non-inflammatory lesions with adapalene was superior to vehicle (risk ratio, RR 1.24, 95% confidence interval, CI 1.08-1.43/RR 1.34, 95% CI 1.18-1.59). However, no significant differences were found in 2 of 3 RCTs for maintaining ‘clear/almost clear' or ‘mild acne' or on the global grading score. For the combination regimens of minocycline/tazarotene/placebo, no significant differences were found. Adapalene/BPO was superior to vehicle counting inflammatory lesions/non-inflammatory lesions (RR 1.61, 95% CI 1.31-1.99; RR 1.80, 95% CI 1.44-2.26). Due to the scarcity of studies, few conclusions can be drawn. More homogeneous outcome measures and specific maintenance study designs may lead to more robust findings."
systematic-review	DRM450826	Systematic Review of Health-Related Quality of Life in Adolescents with Psoriasis Systematic Review of Health-Related Quality of Life in Adolescents with Psoriasis Background: Many cases of psoriasis begin in adolescence. The affected adolescents face the combined physical and psychosocial challenges of their disease-free peers with the added complexity of a visible disease. Objective: To review the impact of psoriasis on the health-related quality of life (HRQL) in adolescents as compared to their peers with other chronic diseases and to determine the best tools to measure HRQL in this population. Methods: A systematic literature review was completed using PubMed. Results: 256 publications were screened for inclusion, 37 were relevant to objectives and included in the systematic review. Most studies are pediatric psoriasis studies with an adolescent subgroup, very few are dedicated to solely addressing HRQL in adolescents with psoriasis. Adolescents with psoriasis face both the challenges similar to an adult psoriasis population in addition to the complexities inherent to healthy adolescents. Studies often use a general pediatric HRQL measure, PedsQL 4.0, or a dermatology-specific measure adapted from an adult questionnaire. Only one psoriasis-specific measurement tool exists, and it is specifically for scalp psoriasis. Conclusion: Both dermatologists and primary care physicians should treat the visible cutaneous lesions and disease comorbidities and address the psychosocial impact of psoriasis in their adolescent patients. Use of both a general and dermatology-specific HRQL questionnaire may allow physicians to better identify the impact of the disease and recognize improvement or impairment over time.
review-article	DRM479150	"An Asian Perspective on Povidone Iodine in Wound Healing An Asian Perspective on Povidone Iodine in Wound Healing Antiseptics, with a broader spectrum of antimicrobial efficacy, lower risk of antibiotic resistance development, and minimal collateral damage to host tissues, are important alternatives to control the bioburden in wounds. Povidone iodine (PVP-I), in use for several decades, has the broadest spectrum of activity, a persistent antimicrobial effect, an ability to penetrate biofilms, and a lack of acquired or cross-resistance. It demonstrates good skin tolerance and low cytotoxicity. However, some reports on PVP-I have raised concerns over allergy, ineffective penetration, and toxic effects on host cells. The majority of these concerns are based on in vitro or rodent wound studies with diverse study designs and outcomes; these results may not be directly applicable in the clinical reality in humans. In this paper, we discuss the efficacy and safety of PVP-I and outline its place in wound healing in Asia, based on an appraisal of recent literature and clinical practice across the region."
meta-analysis	DRM481882	"Serum Leptin, Resistin, and Adiponectin Concentrations in Psoriasis: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Serum Leptin, Resistin, and Adiponectin Concentrations in Psoriasis: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Psoriasis is an immune-mediated, inflammatory disease. Adipokines contribute to the regulation of immune-mediated processes and inflammation. Objective: The aim of our study was to systematically review the literature for studies that have evaluated the circulating concentrations of adipokines in patients with psoriasis and controls and to meta-analyze the best evidence available. Methods: Eligible were studies that have assessed leptin, resistin, or adiponectin concentrations in psoriatic patients and a reference group. The study was conducted in adherence with the PRISMA standards. Results: Psoriatic patients had higher leptin concentrations compared to controls (random effects model, mean difference, MD = 5.64 ng/mL, 95% CI: 3.00-8.29, p &lt; 0.0001). Heterogeneity among studies was high (I2 = 95.9%). Psoriatic patients had higher resistin concentrations compared to controls (MD = 4.66 ng/mL, 95% CI: 2.62-6.69, p &lt; 0.0001). Heterogeneity was high (I2 = 99.2%). Finally, psoriatic patients had lower adiponectin concentrations compared to controls (MD = -1.87 μg/mL, 95% CI: -2.76 to -0.98, p &lt; 0.0001). Heterogeneity was high (I2 = 95.9%). Conclusion: The study supported the hypothesis that leptin and resistin concentrations are higher and adiponectin concentrations are lower in patients with psoriasis compared to controls. Hereby, the suggested pathogenic link between psoriasis and metabolic syndrome/obesity is reinforced and the role of comorbidities in psoriasis is highlighted."
meta-analysis	DRM484203	Folliculotropism Does Not Affect Overall Survival in Mycosis Fungoides: Results from a Single-Center Cohort and Meta-Analysis Folliculotropism Does Not Affect Overall Survival in Mycosis Fungoides: Results from a Single-Center Cohort and Meta-Analysis Background: Folliculotropic mycosis fungoides (FMF) is a distinct subtype of mycosis fungoides (MF) with unique clinicopathological features. The medical literature suggests that FMF has a more aggressive course and worse survival than classic MF. Previous studies do not use standardized treatment, and no studies have reported an association between treatment response and overall survival (OS). Objective: To compare OS for MF, FMF, and Sézary syndrome (SS) patients. Methods: Data were collected retrospectively from 218 patients (171 MF, 15 SS, 32 FMF) treated in a single academic center between 1970 and 2016. Results: Negative predictors of OS were age (OR = 1.07), male sex (OR = 1.63), and stage IIB, III, and IV (OR = 4.10, 5.42, and 7.54, respectively, vs. stage IA). Lack of initial PUVA response was strongly associated with negative OS (OR = 3.08). Kaplan-Meier analysis of age-, sex-, and stage-matched MF and FMF patients found similar OS between the 2 groups. The 5-year OS was 91% for FMF and 74% for MF. Meta-analysis of current data and 2 published studies where survival of FMF patients was compared to MF did not reveal statistically significant differences between these 2 diseases. Conclusions: When patients were matched for age, sex, and disease stage, folliculotropism did not affect OS in MF.
meta-analysis	DRM484520	"Th17 Inhibitors in Active Psoriatic Arthritis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Clinical Trials Th17 Inhibitors in Active Psoriatic Arthritis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Clinical Trials Background: Several biologics targeting the Th17 pathway have been developed for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis (PsA), a disabling disease with moderate response and an increased incidence of serious infections to first-line biologics (TNF-α antagonists). Th17 inhibitors could replace TNF-α antagonists as first-line biologic agents. We determined the overall treatment effect of Th17 pathway inhibitors compared to placebo or active control on American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 response at week 12 (primary objective), risk of infections, discontinuation of treatment due to adverse events, and serious adverse events during the placebo-controlled period (12-24 weeks) in adults with active PsA in published randomized controlled trials. Methods: The SCOPUS database was searched. The Cochrane risk of bias tool was used for assessing quality. The pooled relative risk (RR) was derived from random effects models. Results: Seven randomized controlled trials were included which randomized 1,718 patients to Th17 inhibitors and 840 to placebo. Patients treated with Th17 inhibitors had an RR of 2.04 (95% CI: 1.79-2.33; p &lt; 0.001) for achieving an ACR20 response at week 12 (I2 = 0%; p = 0.89) compared to placebo-treated patients. There was no evidence of publication bias. The result was consistent for study phase and outcome (ACR50/70), mechanism of action and TNF-α naivety. RR of infections was 1.06 (0.91-1.23), that of candida infections was 3.35 (0.75-14.95), that of serious adverse events was 0.82 (0.42-1.59) and that of discontinuation of treatment was 0.54 (0.31-0.93) among treated versus placebo subjects. No incident cases of tuberculosis were reported. Conclusion: In patients with active PsA, biologics targeting the Th17 axis produce a clinically significant improvement in joint disease activity with acceptable safety and tolerability for short-term treatment compared to placebo."
research-article	DRM494613	Janus Kinase Inhibitors for the Treatment of Severe Alopecia Areata: An Open-Label Comparative Study Janus Kinase Inhibitors for the Treatment of Severe Alopecia Areata: An Open-Label Comparative Study Background: Alopecia areata (AA) is a common autoimmune disorder characterized by patchy hair loss. There are many treatments available for AA. However, treatments of severe forms of AA are not satisfactory. Recently, oral Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors were found to be effective for the treatment of severe AA variants. Objective: The aim of this work was to evaluate and compare the efficacy, side effects, and durability of two oral JAK inhibitor medications (ruxolitinib and tofacitinib) in the treatment of severe AA. Methods: This study included 75 patients with AA with more than 30% scalp hair loss, alopecia totalis, and alopecia universalis randomized into 2 groups. The first group (n = 38) received ruxolitinib 20 mg twice daily, and the second group (n = 37) received oral tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily. The treatment continued for 6 months followed by 3 months of follow-up off therapy. Efficacy of treatment was assessed by monitoring the change in the Severity of Alopecia Tool (SALT) score. Results: Both tofacitinib and ruxolitinib induced remarkable hair regrowth, with a mean change in SALT score of 93.8 ± 3.25 in the ruxolitinib group and 95.2 ± 2.69 in the tofacitinib group. However, the ruxolitinib group showed a shorter duration for initial hair regrowth. There was no statistically significant difference between the groups regarding hair regrowth at the end of the 6-month treatment and relapse rate at the end of the 3-month follow-up. Around two thirds of cases experienced relapse. Both drugs were well tolerated, with no reported serious adverse effects. Conclusion: Both ruxolitinib and tofacitinib could be considered effective and well-tolerated treatments for extensive AA.
review-article	DSU268108	Giant Haemangioma of the Liver: Observation or Resection? Giant Haemangioma of the Liver: Observation or Resection? Background: Haemangiomata are the most frequent benign solid liver lesion. The management of giant (≧5 cm) haemangiomata of the liver remains controversial. Methods: A search of relevant peer-reviewed literature was conducted using PubMed and original articles were reviewed. Results and Conclusions: The vast majority of giant haemangiomata remain asymptomatic and have a benign and uncomplicated natural history. Decisions regarding the optimal management of giant haemangiomata depend on a high level of confidence in diagnostic imaging. Diagnostic biopsy to differentiate giant haemangiomata from malignant lesions should be discouraged. Despite limitations and alternative modalities, surgery remains the only consistently effective curative treatment for giant haemangiomata. Surgery is not generally justified to prevent complications in asymptomatic patients. Principal indications for the surgical management of giant haemangiomata include established complications, incapacitating symptoms and uncertainty of diagnosis. Patients should only be selected for surgery based on a careful assessment of risks and benefits of intervention.
review-article	DSU268406	"Subtype Classification of Hepatocellular Adenoma Subtype Classification of Hepatocellular Adenoma Hepatocellular adenomas (HCA) are rare benign tumours occurring mainly in women under oral contraceptives. HCA bleed frequently and transform rarely into hepatocellular carcinoma. Identification of genes recurrently mutated in HCA and good genotype/phenotype correlations provided the basis of a pathomolecular classification of different HCA subgroups, characterized using immunohistochemical markers. HNF1A-mutated HCA: Biallelic-inactivating mutations of HNF1A gene are identified in 35–40% of HCA. HNF1α-inactivated HCA display characteristic pathological features, including marked steatosis. The expression of FABP1 (which is a HNF1A target gene) is downregulated and the absence of L-FABP expression diagnosed this subgroup. β-Catenin-mutated HCA: β-catenin mutations leading to activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway represented 10–15% of HCA. They are characterized by overexpression of glutamine synthetase and aberrant nuclear β-catenin staining. These β-catenin-activated HCA are at greater risk of malignant transformation; they are difficult to differentiate from well-differentiated HCC. Inflammatory HCA (50%): These are defined by the presence of inflammatory infiltrates, sinusoidal dilatation and thick-walled arteries. Small in-frame deletions that target the binding site of gp130 for IL-6 have been reported in 60% of inflammatory HCA. There is an overexpression of the inflammatory proteins serum amyloid A and C-reactive protein in tumour hepatocytes both at mRNA and protein levels. Inflammatory HCA occurred more frequently in patients with high body mass index; they can be also mutated for β-catenin and therefore are probably at risk of HCC. Unclassified HCA: Less than 10% of HCA do not express any of the above-mentioned phenotypic markers. Taking into account noticeable differences between the HCA subgroups, in terms of clinical and prognostic features, phenotyping may become an important tool for HCA management strategy."
review-article	DSU268407	Imaging Modalities for Focal Nodular Hyperplasia and Hepatocellular Adenoma Imaging Modalities for Focal Nodular Hyperplasia and Hepatocellular Adenoma Background/Aims: There are several imaging modalities available for the detection of focal liver lesions. Differentiation between focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) and hepatocellular adenoma (HCA) is important because of the consequences for management. However, differentiation based on imaging alone still shows limitations. Methods: We reviewed the literature for typical features of FNH and HCA on radiologic and nuclear imaging with emphasis on differentiation of both lesions. Results: Seven articles describe the performance of an imaging modality for the differentiation between FNH and HCA. Limitations of these studies are the small sample size and/or the lack of comparison with the ‘gold standard’, i.e. histological diagnosis. No studies are available that compare the accuracy of several imaging modalities in the differentiation of FNH and HCA. Conventional ultrasound (US) is not useful in the differentiation because of the non-specific features. On contrast-enhanced US, the arterial filling direction of FNH is centrifugal and centripetal in case of HCA. The parenchymal enhancement of FNH is sustained in the portal venous and delayed phases, but shows rapid washout in case of HCA. Multiphase CT scan can differentiate FNH from HCA when there is a central scar. FNH may have a slightly higher relative enhancement in the arterial phase. On MRI with hepatocyte-specific contrast agents, HCA does not show contrast uptake in the hepatobiliary phase in contrast to FNH. Conclusion: We conclude that there is limited evidence of the diagnostic performance of currently used imaging modalities for the differentiation of FNH and HCA. We therefore propose a prospective study (DiFA trial) to determine the accuracy of several radiologic and nuclear imaging studies in differentiating FNH and HCA.
review-article	DSU268427	Management of Ruptured Hepatocellular Adenoma Management of Ruptured Hepatocellular Adenoma Hepatocellular adenoma (HA) is an increasingly prevalent benign liver tumor that is strongly associated with use of oral contraceptive medication. The diagnosis is often made after abdominal imaging in female patients with sudden abdominal pain, with or without signs of hemorrhage. Especially larger adenomas are of potential hazard to patients, because of the increased likelihood of rupture or malignant degeneration. Standard treatment of larger adenomas has since long consisted in surgical resection, both for non-ruptured and for ruptured tumors. Although resection is still considered the gold standard, recent reports have advocated initial conservative management. Recently, newer and less invasive methods using selective transarterial embolization have been described that can successfully stop bleeding and even lead to tumor regression. This review addresses different treatment options and recent advances regarding this relatively new condition, focusing mainly on treatment of bleeding and ruptured tumors in an acute setting. A possible algorithm for optimal treatment is presented.
systematic-review	DSU268628	Liver Transplantation for Benign Hepatic Tumors: A Systematic Review Liver Transplantation for Benign Hepatic Tumors: A Systematic Review Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) has been performed for several benign hepatic tumors. Most of these diseases are usually managed conservatively, or treated by liver resection. OLT might be required when the lesions are symptomatic, diffuse in hepatic parenchyma, causing life-threatening complications or malignant transformation cannot be ruled out. Polycystic liver disease is the most common indication for OLT. We present a review of transplantable benign hepatic lesions to evaluate the need of OLT for these diseases, to summarize in which OLT is a good therapeutic option, and to show the early and long-term survival which might be expected.
systematic-review	DSU335739	Laparoscopic Liver Resection in the Netherlands: How Far Are We? Laparoscopic Liver Resection in the Netherlands: How Far Are We? Background: The objective of this study was to provide a systematic review on the introduction of laparoscopic liver surgery in the Netherlands, to investigate the initial experience with laparoscopic liver resections and to report on the current status of laparoscopic liver surgery in the Netherlands. Methods: A systematic literature search of laparoscopic liver resections in the Netherlands was conducted using PubMed/MEDLINE. Analysis of initial experience with laparoscopic liver surgery was performed by case-control comparison of patients undergoing laparoscopic left lateral sectionectomy matched with patients undergoing the open procedure in the Netherlands between the years 2000 and 2008. Furthermore, a nationwide survey was conducted in 2011 on the current status of laparoscopic liver surgery. Results: The systematic review revealed only 6 Dutch reports on actual laparoscopic liver surgery. Matched case-control comparison showed significant differences in the length of hospital stay, blood loss and operation time. Complications did not differ significantly between the two groups (26 vs. 21%). The 2011 survey showed that 21 centers in the Netherlands performed formal liver resections and that 49 (5% of total) laparoscopic liver resections were performed in 2010. Conclusion: The systematic review revealed that very few laparoscopic liver resections were performed in the Netherlands in the previous millennium. The matched case-control comparison of laparoscopic and open left lateral resection showed a reduction in hospital length of stay with comparable morbidity. The laparoscopic technique has been slowly adopted in the Netherlands, but its popularity seems to increase in recent years.
systematic-review	DSU343738	Gastrointestinal Surgery and Related Complications in Patients with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: A Systematic Review Gastrointestinal Surgery and Related Complications in Patients with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: A Systematic Review Introduction: Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a rare inherited group of connective tissue diseases characterized by joint hypermobility, skin hyperextensibility and bruising tendency. Common features of patients with EDS include vascular and gastrointestinal perforations. The purpose of this systematic review is to address gastrointestinal diseases and the complications associated with surgical treatment of diseases relating to the gastrointestinal system in patients with EDS. Methods: PubMed search including the Medical Subject Heading (MeSH) terms ‘Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome’ and ‘Gastrointestinal Diseases’, and an Embase search including the Map Term to Subject Heading ‘Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome’ with ‘AND’ function of the keyword ‘Gastrointestinal’. Results: The literature search resulted in inclusion of 53 articles after application of eligibility criteria. The primary results drawn from the literature was that spontaneous ruptures of vessels and spontaneous perforations of the sigmoid colon occur in patients with EDS. Conclusion: Surgery in patients with EDS is associated with a high risk of complications, which is why preoperative indications should be considered. Optimal therapy for these patients includes the awareness that EDS is a systemic disease involving fragility, bleeding and spontaneous perforations from almost all organ systems. Often, a nonsurgical approach can be the best choice for these patients, depending on the condition.
research-article	DSU348669	Increased Alpha-Fetoprotein Serum Level is Predictive for Survival and Recurrence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Non-Cirrhotic Livers Increased Alpha-Fetoprotein Serum Level is Predictive for Survival and Recurrence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Non-Cirrhotic Livers Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may be diagnosed in the absence of cirrhosis. However, little is known about prognostic factors for the survival of HCC patients with a non-cirrhotic liver in the absence of well-established risk factors. Method: Survival rates and risk factors for survival and recurrence were analysed in all patients diagnosed between 2000 and 2010 with HCC in a non-cirrhotic liver and in the absence of well-established risk factors. Results: Ninety-four patients were analysed. Treatment with curative intent consisted of surgical resection in 43 patients (46%) and radiofrequency ablation in 4 patients (4%). In patients treated with curative intent and alive 30 days after treatment (n = 40), 1- and 5-year overall survival rates were 95 and 51%, respectively. Patients with a high preoperative α-fetoprotein (AFP) serum level, the presence of microvascular invasion in the resected specimen, a complicated postoperative course and a major resection, due to a greater tumour volume, had a significantly worse outcome and a higher recurrence rate. In multivariate analysis, a high AFP serum level at presentation was significantly associated with recurrence and a worse survival. Conclusion: HCC presenting in a non-cirrhotic liver in the absence of well-established risk factors has a poor prognosis. Increased AFP serum levels are significantly associated with clinical outcome.
systematic-review	DSU351433	Surgical Treatment of Zenker's Diverticulum Surgical Treatment of Zenker's Diverticulum Background: Different surgical techniques have been indicated for the management of Zenker's diverticulum (ZD), including diverticulectomy, diverticulopexy, and diverticular inversion, with or without myotomy, and myotomy alone. More recently, minimally invasive techniques (such as the transoral endoscopic approach) have become increasingly reliable for this disorder. We therefore conducted this systematic review in order to gain a profound understanding of the current trend and evidence in surgical management of ZD. Methods: Medline and PubMed were searched to identify studies on surgical intervention of ZD published in English between January 1990 and March 2011. Results: We identified 6,915 patients from 93 studies evaluating the effect of the surgical intervention for ZD. No randomized controlled trials comparing one technique with another were identified. Conclusion: Diverticulectomy with myotomy has become the mainstream treatment option for ZD. In certain selected patients, endoscopic diverticulotomy may offer some advantages over open surgery, such as less trauma and a lower complication rate. It is important to individualize optimal therapy for each patient. More randomized controlled trials with long-term follow-up results are required to draw a valid conclusion on the best surgical intervention modality for ZD.
meta-analysis	DSU368089	Endoscopic Ultrasonography for Tumor Node Staging and Vascular Invasion in Pancreatic Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Endoscopic Ultrasonography for Tumor Node Staging and Vascular Invasion in Pancreatic Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: The accurate staging of pancreatic cancer (PanCa) is crucial in the development of a stage-specific treatment plan for PanCa patients. We aimed to perform a meta-analysis of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the tumor node (TN) staging and evaluation of vascular invasion in PanCa. Methods: A meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy parameters was performed to evaluate the EUS-based TN staging, and vascular invasion by PanCa was compared to the results of intraoperative staging or to the histopathology of resected specimens. Results: Twenty studies with 726 PanCa cases were identified from 281 articles. The pooled sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio (PLR), negative likelihood ratio (NLR), and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) were 0.72, 0.90, 6.27, 0.28, and 24.69, respectively, for T1-2 staging and 0.90, 0.72, 3.58, 0.16, and 24.69, respectively, for T3-4 staging. The overall sensitivity, specificity, PLR, NLR, and DOR were 0.62, 0.74, 2.54, 0.51, and 6.67, respectively, for N staging (positive vs. negative) and 0.87, 0.92, 7.16, 0.20, and 56.19, respectively, for vascular invasion. The area under the curve was 0.90, 0.90, 0.79, and 0.94 for T1-2 staging, T3-4 staging, N staging, and vascular invasion, respectively. Conclusions: EUS is a reliable and accurate diagnostic tool for the TN staging and evaluation of vascular invasion in PanCa. The nodal staging accuracy using EUS is less satisfactory. i 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel
meta-analysis	DSU369217	Single Incision versus Conventional Multiport Laparoscopic Appendectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Single Incision versus Conventional Multiport Laparoscopic Appendectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: The efficacy of single incision laparoscopic appendectomy (SILA) in comparison with conventional multiport laparoscopic appendectomy (CMLA) has not been conclusively determined. Methods: A systematic literature review (Medline, EMBASE, Science Citation Index, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials) was performed. Meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing SILA with CMLA were carried out by RevMan 5.0 software. Results: Eleven RCTs comparing SILA and CMLA were included. Overall, 1,216 patients were operated on: 611 cases by SILA versus 605 cases by CMLA. Compared with CMLA, SILA was associated with increased procedural difficulty, prolonged procedural duration, shorter length of hospital stay, earlier return to normal activity and better cosmesis. There were no significant differences in postoperative pain scores and complication rates between SILA and CMLA. Conclusion: The current best evidence shows SILA holds the promise of improving postoperative recovery and cosmetic result with equal efficacy and safety, whereas it is associated with higher surgical difficulty with longer surgical time when compared with CMLA.
meta-analysis	DSU369219	"Fast-Track Programs Versus Traditional Care in Hepatectomy: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Fast-Track Programs Versus Traditional Care in Hepatectomy: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background/Aims: The role of fast-track programs in hepatectomy is unclear. This meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of fast-track programs versus traditional care. Methods: We searched Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Google Scholar for relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing fast-track with traditional care in hepatectomy. Length of hospital stay, time to first flatus, postoperative complications, operating time, and intraoperative blood loss were assessed. Meta-analyses were performed using RevMan 5.2 software. Results: Four original RCTs with 372 patients were included: 187 in the fast-track and 185 in the traditional care group. Fast-track patients had shorter hospital stay (WMD -2.32; 95% CI, -3.54 to -1.11; p &lt; 0.001) and time to first flatus (WMD -0.99; 95% CI, -1.15 to -0.84; p &lt; 0.001), and less postoperative complications (RR 0.66; 95% CI, 0.47 to 0.93; p &lt; 0.05). However, there was significant heterogeneity between the studies regarding hospital stay (I2 = 88%; p &lt; 0.001). Operating time and intraoperative blood loss were not different. Conclusions: Patients in fast-track programs had less time to first flatus and postoperative complications compared to traditional care. Fast-track programs may reduce the length of hospital stay. Larger, higher quality prospective RCTs are necessary to draw more robust conclusions."
research-article	DSU370128	"The Indications for Hepatectomy for Multinodular Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Experience from a Single Institution The Indications for Hepatectomy for Multinodular Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Experience from a Single Institution Aims: This study was conducted in order to investigate the indications for hepatecomy for multinodular hepatocellular carcinoma (MNHCC) in single institution. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the medical records from 55 MNHCC patients, mainly with Child-Pugh A liver function, who underwent hepatectomy from January 2006 to December 2008. Both short- and long-term outcomes were analyzed. In addition, the prognostic significance of clinicopathological factors on overall survival (OS) was investigated by univariate analysis using the log-rank test. A Cox proportional hazards model was used in a subsequent multivariate analysis. Results: The perioperative morbidity rate (grade II or higher) was 18.2% (n = 10), and the in-hospital mortality rate was 3.6%. The median OS was 23.9 months (range, 2.5-84 months), whereas the median disease-free survival was 8.75 months (range, 1-65 months). Independent prognostic risk factors of 5-year OS included the number of tumors &gt;2 (p = 0.032) and gross morphology indicating multiple tumor nodules scattered throughout the liver (p = 0.009). Conclusions: The postoperative morbidity and mortality rates were acceptable. The number of tumors &gt;2 and gross morphology indicating multiple tumor nodules scattered throughout the liver were independent prognostic risk factors for patients with MNHCC after hepatectomy. Patients with both of these features had a very poor prognosis and were not considered suitable for surgery."
meta-analysis	DSU370249	"A Meta-Analysis Examining the Use of Fibrin Glue Mesh Fixation versus Suture Mesh Fixation in Open Inguinal Hernia Repair A Meta-Analysis Examining the Use of Fibrin Glue Mesh Fixation versus Suture Mesh Fixation in Open Inguinal Hernia Repair Background: The aim of this study was to systematically analyze the randomized trials comparing fibrin glue mesh fixation with suture mesh fixation in open inguinal hernia repair. Methods: Information was collected from a literature search using PubMed, Springer, Cochrane Library database and reference lists. The methodological quality of included publications was evaluated. Statistical analysis was performed using Review Manager Version 5.2.5 software. Results: Nine articles were identified for inclusion: four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and five prospective observational clinical studies. All the trials were considered to be of fair quality. The results showed that there was a lower incidence of chronic pain (RR 0.42, 95% CI 0.22-0.79, I2 11%; p &lt; 0.01), and hematoma/seroma (RR 0.43, 95% CI 0.21-0.87, I2 0%; p &lt; 0.05) in the fibrin glue mesh fixation group. However, the results of meta-analysis revealed that the incidence of recurrence or urinary problems between the two procedures were similar. Conclusions: During the 6-15 months follow-up, fibrin glue mesh fixation is a feasible alternative for mesh fixation with sutures in open inguinal hernia repair. However, the poor quality of the included trials limits the evidence; rigorously designed trials are warranted to confirm this conclusion."
research-article	DSU371455	Gallbladder Ejection Fraction Declines with Age in Patients Undergoing Cholecystectomy for Acalculous Biliary Symptoms But Has Low Accuracy in the Prediction of Gallbladder Pathology Gallbladder Ejection Fraction Declines with Age in Patients Undergoing Cholecystectomy for Acalculous Biliary Symptoms But Has Low Accuracy in the Prediction of Gallbladder Pathology Background/Aims: Hepatobiliary Iminodiacetic Acid (HIDA) scan provides a technique to quantify gallbladder ejection fraction (EF) in patients suffering acalculous biliary colic (ACBC). We wished to evaluate the accuracy of EF in the prediction of gallbladder pathology in patients undergoing cholecystectomy. Methods: Data were retrieved from a database of patients referred for HIDA scan for ACBC, including EF and the pathological outcome of those undergoing cholecystectomy, and compared to normal values obtained from a review of related studies. Significant associations were demonstrated by chi-square, Mann-Whitney test, and linear regression. The predictive accuracy of different cut-offs of EF was demonstrated by the ROC curve analysis. Results: Of 83 patients referred for HIDA scan for ACBC, 41 underwent cholecystectomy. The median EF of this group (33%) was significantly lower than the composite normal median value from previous studies (56%). Thirty-two patients revealed evidence of gallbladder pathology. The EF declined with age (coefficient = -0.51, 95% CI = -0.99 to -0.33), but the median value did not differ between those with gallbladder pathology (34%) and those with normal gallbladders (29%). Conclusion/Discussion: Although an EF cut-off of 35% had the greatest accuracy in the prediction of pathology of those tested (0.56), the poor negative predictive value (23.5%) was a major contributor to its low accuracy. Although patients with ACBC have reduced gallbladder EF compared to the normal population, its quantitative assessment is of limited value in the prediction of gallbladder pathology.
research-article	DSU371747	"Minimally Invasive Esophagectomy with Right Bronchial Occlusion under Artificial Pneumothorax Minimally Invasive Esophagectomy with Right Bronchial Occlusion under Artificial Pneumothorax Aims: To assess the safety and feasibility of minimally invasive esophagectomy and selected three-field lymphadenectomy with the right bronchial occlusion in left semi-prone position under artificial pneumothorax. Methods: Thoracoscopic-laparoscopic subtotal esophagectomy and selected three-field lymphadenectomy were performed in 166 patients with esophageal carcinoma by the right bronchial occlusion in left semi-prone position under artificial pneumothorax. Results: 109 patients received two-field lymphadenectomy and 57 received three-field lymphadenectomy. The average operative time was 202.5 ± 21.3 min; the average thoracoscopic operative time was 98.4 ± 15.5 min. The average blood loss was 39.6 ± 4.2 ml, and no blood transfusion was needed during the surgery. The mean lymph node harvest was 28.4 ± 5.2 nodes. Hospital stay ranged from 7 to 95 days and the average was 11.3 days. The postoperative complication rate was 29.5%, and the mortality rate was 1.2%. Conclusions: It is feasible and safe to perform thoracoscopic-laparoscopic subtotal esophagectomy and selected three-field lymphadenectomy with the right bronchial occlusion in left semi-prone position under artificial pneumothorax for esophageal carcinoma. The procedure shows advantages in improved visibility and accessibility of the surgical field, and better subsequent surgical outcomes."
meta-analysis	DSU371749	"Laparoscopic versus Open Obesity Surgery: A Meta-Analysis of Pulmonary Complications Laparoscopic versus Open Obesity Surgery: A Meta-Analysis of Pulmonary Complications The clinical effects of laparoscopy in the pulmonary function of obese patients have been poorly investigated in the past. A systematic review was undertaken, with the objective to identify published evidence on pulmonary complications in laparoscopic surgery in the obese. Outcome measures included pulmonary morbidity, pulmonary infection and mortality. The random effects model was used to calculate combined overall effect sizes of pooled data. Data are presented as the odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI). A total of 6 randomized and 14 observational studies were included, which reported data on 185,328 patients. Pulmonary complications occurred in 1.6% of laparoscopic and in 3.6% of open procedures (OR 0.45, 95% CI 0.34-0.60). Pneumonia was reported in 0.5% and in 1.1%, respectively (OR 0.45, 95% CI 0.40-0.51). Available evidence suggests lower pulmonary morbidity for laparoscopic surgery in obese patients; further quality studies are however necessary to consolidate these findings."
research-article	DSU371856	"Factors Influencing Survival after Pancreatoduodenectomy for Ductal Adenocarcinoma Depend on Patients' Age Factors Influencing Survival after Pancreatoduodenectomy for Ductal Adenocarcinoma Depend on Patients' Age Background: It is supposed that a prolonged lifetime will be associated with increased incidence of PDAC among the elderly. Some studies show a tendency toward decreased survival in the elderly patients following pancreatoduodenectomy for PDAC. The aim of this study was to evaluate factors, influencing survival following pancreatoduodenectomy for PDAC in different age groups. Methods: Data of 251 patients after pancreatoduodenectomy for PDAC between 1999 and 2012 were analyzed. The Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test were used to calculate survival and to compare differences between groups. The Cox proportional hazard model was applied to indentify independent prognosticators. Results: The overall median survival was 14.9 months. Postoperative morbidity was 25.5% with a 5.1% mortality rate. No significant differences in the overall morbidity (22.4 vs. 29.6%) or mortality (2.8 vs. 8.3%) rates were observed between different patients' age groups (&lt;70 years and &gt;70 years). Multivariate analysis revealed R1 resection (HR 1.76) and poor tumor differentiation (G3-G4) (HR 1.48) were independent negative factors for survival in patients &lt;70 years. Lymph-node metastases (N1) - HR 4.89 and perineural invasion - HR 2.73 were independent prognosticators in the elderly. Conclusions: Our study highlighted different factors influencing long-term survival after pancreatoduodenectomy: R1 resection and poor tumor differentiation (G3-G4) were independent negative factors for survival in patients &lt;70 years, while perineural invasion and lymph-node metastases result in worse survival among the elderly."
meta-analysis	DSU381032	Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Somatostatin Analogues in the Prevention of Postoperative Complication after Pancreaticoduodenectomy Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Somatostatin Analogues in the Prevention of Postoperative Complication after Pancreaticoduodenectomy Background: The use of somatostatin analogues (SAs) following pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) is controversial. Method: Literature databases were searched systematically for relevant articles. A meta-analysis of all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating prophylactic SAs in PD was performed. Results: Fifteen RCTs involving 1,352 patients were included. There was a towards reduced incidences of pancreatic fistulas (p = 0.26), clinically significant pancreatic fistulas (p = 0.08), and bleeding (p = 0.05) in prophylactic SAs group. In subgroup analyses, prophylactic somatostatin significantly reduced the incidence of pancreatic fistulas (p = 0.02), with a nonsignificant trend toward reduced incidence of clinically significantly pancreatic fistulas (p = 0.06). Pasireotide significantly reduced the incidence of clinically significantly pancreatic fistulas (p = 0.03). Octreotide had no influence on the incidence of pancreatic fistulas. Conclusion: The current best evidence suggests prophylactic treatment with somatostatin or pasireotide has a potential role in reducing the incidence of pancreatic fistulas, while octreotide had no influence on the incidence of pancreatic fistulas. High-quality RCTs assessing the role of somatostatin and pasireotide are required for further verification.
systematic-review	DSU381886	A Systematic Review and Analysis of Factors Associated with Methodological Quality in Laparoscopic Randomized Controlled Trials A Systematic Review and Analysis of Factors Associated with Methodological Quality in Laparoscopic Randomized Controlled Trials Several methods for assessment of methodological quality in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been developed during the past few years. Factors associated with quality in laparoscopic surgery have not been defined till date. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between bibliometric and the methodological quality of laparoscopic RCTs. The PubMed search engine was queried to identify RCTs on minimally invasive surgery published in 2012 in the 10 highest impact factor surgery journals and the 5 highest impact factor laparoscopic journals. Eligible studies were blindly assessed by two independent investigators using the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) tool for RCTs. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify potential associations with methodological quality. A total of 114 relevant RCTs were identified. More than half of the trials were of high or acceptable quality. Half of the reports provided information on comparative demographic data and only 21% performed intention-to-treat analysis. RCTs with sample size of at least 60 patients presented higher methodological quality (p = 0.025). Upon multiple regression, reporting on preoperative care and the experience level of surgeons were independent factors of quality.
systematic-review	DSU441150	Emergency Laparoscopic Sigmoidectomy for Perforated Diverticulitis with Generalised Peritonitis: A Systematic Review Emergency Laparoscopic Sigmoidectomy for Perforated Diverticulitis with Generalised Peritonitis: A Systematic Review Background: Laparoscopic sigmoidectomy for diverticulitis has initially been confined to the elective setting. However, open acute sigmoidectomy for perforated diverticulitis is associated with high morbidity rates that might be reduced after laparoscopic surgery. The aim of this systematic review was to assess the feasibility of emergency laparoscopic sigmoidectomy for perforated diverticulitis. Methods: We performed a systematic search of PubMed, EMBASE and CENTRAL. All studies reporting on patients with perforated diverticulitis (Hinchey III-IV) treated by laparoscopic sigmoidectomy in the acute phase were included, regardless of design. Results: We included 4 case series and one cohort study (total of 104 patients) out of 1,706 references. Hartmann's procedure (HP) was performed in 84 patients and primary anastomosis in 20. The mean operating time varied between 115 and 200 min. The conversion rate varied from 0 to 19%. The mean length of hospital stay ranged between 6 and 16 days. Surgical re-intervention was necessary in 2 patients. In 20 patients operated upon without defunctioning ileostomy, no anastomotic leakage was reported. Three patients died during the postoperative period. Stoma reversal after HP was performed in 60 out of 79 evaluable patients (76%). Conclusions: Acute laparoscopic sigmoidectomy for the treatment of perforated diverticulitis is feasible in selected patients provided they are handled by experienced hands.
meta-analysis	DSU441480	Effect of Antecolic versus Retrocolic Gastroenteric Reconstruction after Pancreaticoduodenectomy on Delayed Gastric Emptying: A Meta-Analysis of Six Randomized Controlled Trials Effect of Antecolic versus Retrocolic Gastroenteric Reconstruction after Pancreaticoduodenectomy on Delayed Gastric Emptying: A Meta-Analysis of Six Randomized Controlled Trials Background: One of the most frequent complications of pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) is delayed gastric emptying (DGE). The study aim was to evaluate the impact of the type of gastro/duodenojejunal reconstruction (antecolic vs. retrocolic) after PD on DGE incidence. Methods: A systematic review was made according to the PRISMA guidelines. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing antecolic vs. retrocolic reconstruction were included irrespective of the PD techniques. A meta-analysis was then performed. Results: Six RCTs were included for a total of 588 patients. The overall quality was good. General risk of bias was low. DGE was not statistically significantly different between the antecolic and retrocolic group (OR 0.6, 95% CI 0.31-1.16, p = 0.13). The other main surgery-related complications (pancreatic fistula, hemorrhage, intra-abdominal abscess, bile leak and wound infection) were not dependent on the reconstruction route (OR 0.84, 95% CI 0.41-1.70, p = 0.63). No statistically significant difference in terms of length of hospital stay was found between the 2 groups. There was also no difference of DGE incidence if only pylorus-preserving PD was considered and between the DGE grades A, B or C. Conclusion: This meta-analysis shows that antecolic reconstruction after PD is not superior to retrocolic reconstruction in terms of DGE.
systematic-review	DSU445068	"Scores for Prediction of Fistula after Pancreatoduodenectomy: A Systematic Review Scores for Prediction of Fistula after Pancreatoduodenectomy: A Systematic Review Background/Aim: Different scoring systems to predict the occurrence of postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) after pancreatoduodenectomy have been described, but the considered risk factors often suffer subjective scaling. The aim of this review is to evaluate and compare all published risk metrics predictive of POPF. Methods: All existing scores were retrieved by literature web search. Inclusion criteria were ISGPF classification of POPF and the development of a risk score metric. Results: From a total of 286 publications, 10 studies were selected. Most of them were retrospective and single center. The models considered a median number of 3 items (range from 2 to 5); in 5 of 10 trials only pre or intraoperative variables were included. The median number of patients/study was 186 (IQR 111.1-229.0). External validation was performed in 6 of 10 studies. The most recurrent items were abdominal fat (4/10), main pancreatic duct diameter (in 4/10), and pancreatic texture (3/10). Conclusion: POPF risk estimation should be easy, accurate, and objective. It should consider preoperative patient-related and gland-related features, and intraoperative events. None of the published systems completely adhere to these principles. Large heterogeneous multicentric validations should be endorsed, to account for the case-mix and evaluate the reproducibility of each scoring system."
meta-analysis	DSU445505	Preoperative Risk Factors for Conversion of Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy to Open Surgery - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Preoperative Risk Factors for Conversion of Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy to Open Surgery - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Preoperative risk factors for the conversion of laparoscopic cholecystectomy to open surgery have been identified, but never been explored systematically. Our objective was to systematically present the evidence of preoperative risk factors for conversion of laparoscopic cholecystectomy to open surgery. Methods: PubMed and Embase were searched systematically in March 2014. Observational studies evaluating preoperative risk factors for conversion of laparoscopic cholecystectomy to open surgery in patients with gallstone disease were included. The outcome variables extracted were patient demographics, medical history, severity of gallstone disease, and preoperative laboratory values. Results: A total of 1,393 studies were screened for eligibility. We found 32 studies, including 460,995 patients operated with laparoscopic cholecystectomy, eligible for the systematic review. Of these, 10 studies were suitable for 7 meta-analyses on age, gender, body mass index, previous abdominal surgery, severity of disease, white blood cell count, and gallbladder wall thickness. Conclusions: A gallbladder wall thicker than 4-5 mm, a contracted gallbladder, age above 60 or 65, male gender, and acute cholecystitis were risk factors for the conversion of laparoscopic cholecystectomy to open surgery. Furthermore, there was no association between diabetes mellitus or white blood cell count and conversion to open surgery.
systematic-review	DSU446930	"The 100 Most-Cited Articles in Visceral Surgery: A Systematic Review The 100 Most-Cited Articles in Visceral Surgery: A Systematic Review Background: Even though citation analysis has several limitations, it is a commonly used tool to determine the impact of scientific articles in different research fields. Objective: The study aims to identify and systematically review the 100 most cited articles in the field of visceral surgery focusing on papers that modified therapeutic concepts and influenced the surgeons' decision making. Methods: The 100 most cited clinical articles in visceral surgery were identified using Journal Citation Reports and Science Citation Index Expanded of the Web of Science (Thomson Reuters, Philadelphia, Pa., USA). Data for characterization of the articles were determined: Number of citations, research topic, journal, publication time, authorship, country of origin, type of article and level of evidence if reasonable. Results: The 100 most cited articles were published in 17 journals; 72 articles were found in the 3 journals: New England Journal of Medicine (38), Annals of Surgery (21) and Lancet (13). The oldest article was published in 1908 in Annals of Surgery (ranked 76th) and the most recent in 2012 in Lancet (65th). Eighty articles were published between 1990 and 2010. The number of citations ranged from 667 to 4,666 (median 925). The leading country of origin was the United States with 39 articles, followed by articles originating from more than one country (30). There were 45 interventional studies (27 randomized controlled trials), 32 observational studies, 19 reviews and 4 guidelines, definitions or classifications. The level of evidence was low (IV) in 42 articles and high in 35 articles (Ia or Ib). A high number of citations did not reflect a high level of evidence. Conclusions: The topics and research questions of the identified articles covered a large area of visceral surgery. Some of the milestones in visceral surgery were identified. The high impact measured by citations did not reflect a high quality of research (level of evidence) in a considerable number of publications."
meta-analysis	DSU449106	Increased Need for Gastrointestinal Surgery and Increased Risk of Surgery-Related Complications in Patients with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: A Systematic Review Increased Need for Gastrointestinal Surgery and Increased Risk of Surgery-Related Complications in Patients with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: Ehlers-Danlos syndromes (EDSs) constitute a rare group of inherited connective tissue diseases, characterized by multisystemic manifestations and general tissue fragility. Most severe complications include vascular and gastrointestinal (GI) emergencies requiring acute surgery. The purpose of this systematic review was to assess the causes of GI-related surgery and related mortality and morbidity in patients with EDSs. Methods: A systematic search was conducted in PubMed, Embase, and Scopus to identify relevant studies. Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guidelines for systematic reviews were followed. According to eligibility criteria, data were extracted and systematically screened by 2 authors. Results: Screening process identified 11 studies with a total of 1,567 patients. Findings indicated that patients with EDSs had a higher occurrence of surgery demanding GI manifestations, including perforation, hemorrhage, rupture of intra-abdominal organs, and rectal prolapse. Most affected was the vascular subtype, of which up to 33% underwent GI surgery and suffered from a lowered average life expectancy of 48 years (range 6-78). Secondary complications of surgery were common in all patients with EDSs. Conclusion: Studies suggested that patients with EDSs present an increased need for GI surgery, but also an increased risk of surgery-related complications, most predominantly seen in the vascular subtype.
meta-analysis	DSU450683	"Laparoscopic versus Open Surgery for Diverticulitis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Laparoscopic versus Open Surgery for Diverticulitis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: The study aimed to perform a meta-analysis comparing laparoscopic and open surgery for diverticulitis. Methods: Studies comparing the outcomes of laparoscopic surgery versus open surgery for diverticulitis that reported quantitative data were included. Outcome measures were mortality and morbidity rates and length of hospital stay. Results: Four randomized controlled trials - 3 prospective and 21 retrospective - were included in the analysis. The total numbers of patients ranged from 5 to 14,562 in the laparoscopic groups and from 4 to 110,172 in the open surgery groups, and the mean patient age ranged from 38.9 to 78 years. Overall analysis revealed that laparoscopic surgery was associated with lower mortality (pooled OR 0.40, 95% CI 0.25-0.63, p &lt; 0.001) and a lower overall morbidity rate (pooled OR 0.65, 95% CI 0.51-0.82, p &lt; 0.001) than open surgery. Laparoscopic surgery was associated with a higher anastomotic bleeding rate, but lower rates of ileus, anastomotic leakage, small bowel obstruction, wound infection, fascial dehiscence and intra-abdominal abscesses. Length of hospital stay was less with laparoscopic surgery. Conclusions: The current meta-analysis supports the use of laparoscopy for the treatment of diverticulitis. The results, however, should be interpreted with caution."
meta-analysis	DSU450865	Out-Patient Management of Mild or Uncomplicated Diverticulitis: A Systematic Review Out-Patient Management of Mild or Uncomplicated Diverticulitis: A Systematic Review Background: Management of diverticular disease has undergone a paradigm shift, with movement towards a less invasive management strategy. In keeping with this, outpatient management of uncomplicated diverticulitis (UD) has been advocated in several studies, but concerns still remain regarding the safety of this practice. Aim: To assess outcomes of out-patient management of acute UD. Methods: A comprehensive search for published studies using the search terms ‘uncomplicated diverticulitis', ‘mild diverticulitis' and ‘out-patient' was performed. The primary outcomes were failure of medical treatment. Secondary outcomes were recurrence rate at follow up and medical cost savings. Results: The search yielded 192 publications. Of these, 10 studies met the inclusion criteria including 1 randomized controlled trial, 6 clinical controlled trials and 3 case series. There was no difference in failure rates of medical treatment (6.5 vs. 4.6%, p = 0.32) or in recurrence rates (13.0 vs. 12.1%, p = 0.81) between those receiving ambulatory care and in-patient care for UD. Ambulatory treatment is associated with an estimated daily cost savings of between 600 and 1,900 euros per patient treated. Meta-analysis of data was not possible due to heterogeneity in study designs and inclusion criteria. Conclusion: Ambulatory management of acute UD is reasonable in selected patients.
meta-analysis	DSU453552	"Binding versus Conventional Pancreaticojejunostomy in Preventing Postoperative Pancreatic Fistula: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Binding versus Conventional Pancreaticojejunostomy in Preventing Postoperative Pancreatic Fistula: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The aim of this study was to compare the safety and efficacy of a new technology, binding pancreaticojejunostomy (BPJ), with conventional pancreaticojejunostomy (CPJ) after pancreaticoduodenectomy in preventing postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF). Methods: Randomized controlled trials and observational studies were retrieved from literature searches. Pooled OR with 95% CI for dichotomous variables and weighted mean difference with 95% CI for continuous variables were calculated. Fixed-effect and random-effect models as well as subgroup analysis were used for sensitivity analysis. Results: No statistically significant differences were found in the incidence of POPF, delayed gastric emptying, postpancreatectomy hemorrhage, reoperation, morbidity, mortality, operation time, intraoperative blood loss, blood transfusion, and hospital stay between 2 groups. However, the total costs of hospitalization and ordinary stay were higher in BPJ group (€10,513 ± €6,536 vs. €8,238 ± €4,687, p = 0.002; €7,946 ± €5,023 vs. €5,700 ± €2,902, p = 0.015, respectively). Conclusions: Our study showed BPJ was as safe as CPJ. However, no significant superiority was found in BPJ group regarding the incidence of POPF. The total costs of hospital stay were higher for patients undergoing BPJ. Surgeons can prefer to perform the digestive tract reconstruction of their choice."
systematic-review	DSU453590	Quality of Life after Intestinal Resection in Patients with Crohn Disease: A Systematic Review Quality of Life after Intestinal Resection in Patients with Crohn Disease: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: Most patients with Crohn disease (CD) require surgery within 10 years of diagnosis. Intestinal resection is the most commonly performed operation although the effects on health-related quality of life (HRQOL), particularly long-term, are contentious. Methods: We conducted a systematic review evaluating the impact of intestinal resection on the HRQOL of CD patients, predictors of postoperative HRQOL, and patient satisfaction with surgery. Results: Nine studies including 1,108 CD patients undergoing intestinal resection were identified as eligible for inclusion. The median age at surgery was 29-41 years with varying follow-up period (range 30 days-5 years). Ileocolic resection was the most commonly performed operation on an elective basis (range 95-100%). HRQOL improved as early as 2 weeks postoperatively and lasted up to 5 years across both generic and gastrointestinal domains. Gender, smoking, and disease recurrence were potential predictors of postoperative HRQOL. Patient satisfaction is high with regard to surgery, with preference for a laparoscopic approach. Conclusion: Intestinal resection in CD patients improved HRQOL in the short- and long-term and patients describe high satisfaction about their surgery. Further studies are needed to validate potential predictors of postoperative HRQOL in this cohort.
systematic-review	DSU454958	"Systematic Review of Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency after Gastrectomy for Cancer Systematic Review of Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency after Gastrectomy for Cancer Background: Survival rates after a total gastrectomy with adequate lymphadenectomy are improving, leading to a shift in outcomes of interest from survival to postoperative outcomes and symptoms. In this systematic review, we investigate gastrointestinal symptoms that occur after a gastrectomy in relation to exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and the effect of pancreatic exocrine enzyme supplementation on these symptoms. Methods: Online databases PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Library were systematically searched in accordance with the PRISMA guidelines. Studies that researched gastrointestinal symptoms, exocrine pancreatic function, and enzyme supplementation were identified and assessed. Results: The search resulted in a total of 1,023 articles after exclusion of duplicates. After performing a thorough assessment, 4 studies were included for systematic review. Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency was investigated by 2 studies; the results showed a significant decrease of total exocrine pancreatic function of up to 76%. The other 2 studies investigated the effect of pancreatic enzyme supplementation and found minor improvement in fecal consistency and a decrease in high-degree steatorrhea. No differences in individual symptom scores were reported. Conclusion: Gastrointestinal symptoms such as steatorrhea, bloating, and dumping syndrome may be related to exocrine pancreatic function, initiated by total gastrectomy. Treatment with pancreatic enzymes had a minor positive effect on patients. It should be noted that these studies were of a small sample size and low quality. New and larger RCTs are necessary to either prove or disprove the benefit of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy in the treatment of the gastrointestinal symptoms after total gastrectomy."
meta-analysis	DSU455241	Early Cholecystectomy for Acute Cholecystitis in the Elderly Population: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Early Cholecystectomy for Acute Cholecystitis in the Elderly Population: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: In the era of advanced surgical techniques and improved perioperative care, the willingness to perform emergency operations in elderly patients continues to increase. This systematic review aimed at assessing the clinical outcomes of early cholecystectomy in elderly patients with acute cholecystitis. Methods: Medline, Embase, and Cochrane Library databases were systematically searched for studies reporting on early cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis in patients aged ≥70 years. The conversion rate, perioperative morbidity, and mortality were calculated using a random-effects model. Results: Eight articles fell within the scope of this study. In total, 592 patients were identified. The mean age was 81 years. Early cholecystectomy was performed laparoscopically in 316 patients (53%) and open in 276 patients (47%). The procedure was associated with a conversion rate of 23% (95% CI 18.6-28.3), a perioperative morbidity of 24% (95% CI 20.5-27.5), and a mortality of 3.5% (95% CI 2.3-5.4). Conclusion: Early cholecystectomy seems to be a feasible treatment in elderly patients with acute cholecystitis. To reduce morbidity, patients who may benefit from surgery ought to be selected carefully. Future prospective studies should compare early cholecystectomy with alternative treatments to select the treatment that is most appropriate for elderly patients.
review-article	DSU478791	"Prognostic Impact of Adjuvant Chemotherapy after Hepatic Resection for Synchronous and Early Metachronous Colorectal Liver Metastases Prognostic Impact of Adjuvant Chemotherapy after Hepatic Resection for Synchronous and Early Metachronous Colorectal Liver Metastases Background: Although the usefulness of adjuvant chemotherapy has been established in the treatment for stages II/III colorectal cancer, its prognostic advantage for colorectal liver metastases (CLM) remains controversial. Methods: Two hundred and nine patients who underwent curative resection for CLM were reviewed. The potential advantage of adjuvant chemotherapy was investigated in 3 groups stratified by disease-free interval (DFI): synchronous CLM (S-CLM), early metachronous CLM (EM-CLM, DFI ≤1 year), and late metachronous CLM (LM-CLM, DFI &gt;1 year). Results: Of the 105 patients who underwent adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery, 47 received uracil-tegafur and leucovorin (UFT/LV) while 58 received the oxaliplatin-based regimen. Five-year recurrence-free survival (RFS) rates in patients with/without adjuvant chemotherapy were 32.8/11.2% in S-CLM (p = 0.002), 43.7/15.2% in EM-CLM (p = 0.002), 44.1/29.6% in LM-CLM (p = 0.163), respectively. Five-year overall survival (OS) rates were 77.9/44.5% in S-CLM (p = 0.021), 81.5/39.5% in EM-CLM (p = 0.015), 76.1/65.4% in LM-CLM (p = 0.411), respectively. Multivariate analyses in S-CLM and EM-CLM indicated that adjuvant chemotherapy is correlated with better RFS and OS irrespective of the regimens, while the incidence of severe adverse event was significantly different between UFT/LV and oxaliplatin (6.8 vs. 50.9%, p &lt; 0.0001). Conclusion: Adjuvant chemotherapy might improve the clinical outcomes in S-CLM and EM-CLM. UFT/LV might be a choice for CLM in adjuvant settings in selected patients."
meta-analysis	DSU485139	A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials on the Use of Suction Drains Following Rectal Surgery A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials on the Use of Suction Drains Following Rectal Surgery Background: Anastomotic leakage is one of the most feared complications of rectal resections. The role of drains in limiting this occurrence or facilitating its early recognition is still poorly defined. We aimed to study whether the presence of prophylactic pelvic drains affects the surgical outcomes of patients undergoing rectal surgery with extraperitoneal anastomosis. Methods: PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library were systematically searched for randomized controlled trials comparing drained with undrained anastomoses following rectal surgery. We evaluated possible differences on the relative incidences of anastomotic leakage, pelvic collection or sepsis, bowel obstruction, reoperation rate, and overall mortality. A meta-analysis of relevant studies was performed with RevMan 5.3. Results: A total of 760 patients from 4 randomized controlled studies were considered eligible for data extraction. The use of drains did not show any advantage in terms of anastomotic leak (OR 0.99), pelvic complications (OR 0.87), reintervention (OR 0.84) and mortality. Contrariwise, the incidence of postoperative bowel obstruction was significantly higher in the drained group (OR 1.61). Conclusions: The routine utilization of pelvic drains does not confer any significant advantage in the prevention of postoperative complications after rectal surgery with extraperitoneal anastomosis. Moreover, a higher risk of postoperative bowel obstruction can be of concern.
research-article	DSU494219	Establishment of a Nomogram by Integrating Molecular Markers and Tumor-Node-Metastasis Staging System for Predicting the Prognosis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma Establishment of a Nomogram by Integrating Molecular Markers and Tumor-Node-Metastasis Staging System for Predicting the Prognosis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma Aims: This study aimed to develop a valuable nomogram by integrating molecular markers and tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) staging system for predicting the long-term outcome of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Methods: The gene expression profiles of HCC patients undergoing liver resection were obtained from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. One hundred and ninety-nine patients from TCGA and 94 patients from GEO were selected to be part of the training cohort and validation cohort respectively. Univariate and multivariate cox analyses were performed to identify genes with independent prognostic values for overall survival (OS) of HCC patients in training cohort. Risk score was calculated based on the coefficients and Z-score of 3 genes for each patient. The nomogram was developed based on the risk score and TNM staging system. Discrimination and predictive accuracy of the nomogram were measured by using the concordance index (C-index) and calibration curve. The efficacy of the nomogram was tested in the external validation cohort. Results: Univariate and multivariate cox analyses revealed that EXT2 (p = 0.035, hazard ratio 13.412), ETV5 (p = 0.010, hazard ratio 4.325), and CHODL (p &
research-article	DSU495361	Modified Intrathoracic Esophagogastrostomy with Minimally Invasive Robot-Assisted Ivor-Lewis Esophagectomy for Cancer Modified Intrathoracic Esophagogastrostomy with Minimally Invasive Robot-Assisted Ivor-Lewis Esophagectomy for Cancer Background: Intrathoracic esophagogastrostomy plays an important role in minimally invasive Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy for cancer. Intrathoracic anastomosis with robot-assisted Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy (RAILE) includes hand-sewn and circular stapler methods, which remain technically challenging. In this study, we modified the techniques for intrathoracic anastomosis at RAILE, in order to simplify the complex procedures. Methods: “Side-insertion” technique was used for anvil placement and purse string suture for intrathoracic anastomosis at RAILE. Medical records for consecutive patients who had undergone robot-assisted minimally invasive Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy for cancer between January 2015 and June 2018 were analyzed. Results: A total of consecutive 31 patients were enrolled. There was no conversion to open thoracotomy in this cohort. Mean operation duration in the robotic group was 387.4 ± 68.2 min. Median estimated blood loss was 110 mL (range 50–400 mL). Two patients (6.5%) had postoperative anastomotic leak. No postoperative reoperation was needed and there were no mortality. Six patients (19.4%) had anastomotic stricture and 2 patients of them needed endoscopic dilation. Conclusion: RAILE is safe and feasible. Our modified procedure highlighting the “side-insertion” method may simplify the process of intrathoracic anvil placement and purse string suture for anastomosis at RAILE.
systematic-review	EAR331007	Effectiveness of Therapeutic Communities: A Systematic Review Effectiveness of Therapeutic Communities: A Systematic Review Background: Therapeutic communities (TCs) are drug-free residential settings, focused on psychosocial rehabilitation. While TCs are considered an effective method, the bulk of the research evidence is from poorly controlled studies. The goal of this study was to evaluate TC effectiveness in terms of abstinence and to determine if there were predictive factors of abstinence. Methods: The search used Medline up to January 30, 2011 and was based on a systematic review method. Studies on retention in treatment and/or substance use were considered. Results: Of the 321 studies retrieved from Medline, 12 met selection criteria including overall 3,271 participants from 61 TCs. On average, subjects stayed in TC a third of the planned time. The completion rate ranged from 9 to 56%. All studies showed that substance use decreased during TC, but relapse was frequent after TC. Treatment completion was the most predictive factor of abstinence at follow-up. Surprisingly, psychiatric comorbidities did not appear associated with relapse or with dropout. Conclusions: There was a drop in consumption after TC, but long-lasting benefits were uncertain. Further studies are needed in order to compare the efficacy of TC programs and other types of treatment settings for substance-related disorders.
systematic-review	EAR337028	Misuse of Medicines in the European Union: A Systematic Review of the Literature Misuse of Medicines in the European Union: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background: Although awareness of the misuse of medicines is increasing, data on the extent of the problem in the European Union (EU) are lacking. Methods: In order to assess the magnitude and severity of the problem, a systematic review of the literature on the misuse of analgesics, opioid substitution medicines and sedatives/hypnotics (with the exception of benzodiazepines) was conducted using the PubMed and Web of Science databases. Relevant literature was identified between 2001 and 2011. Results: The main groups of misused medicines include opioid analgesics, methadone, buprenorphine and Z-drugs. Regional trends in medicine misuse indicate heterogeneity across the EU with respect to misused medicine types and research activities. Prevalence, high-risk populations and factors contributing to medicine misuse are discussed. Conclusion: The implications of these findings for prevention, treatment, and policy in the EU are considered.
research-article	EAR343485	Evaluation of the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test and the Drug Use Disorders Identification Test among Patients at a Norwegian Psychiatric Emergency Ward Evaluation of the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test and the Drug Use Disorders Identification Test among Patients at a Norwegian Psychiatric Emergency Ward High rates of substance use disorders (SUD) among psychiatric patients are well documented. This study explores the usefulness of the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) and the Drug Use Disorders Identification Test (DUDIT) in identifying SUD in emergency psychiatric patients. Of 287 patients admitted consecutively, 256 participants (89%) were included, and 61-64% completed the questionnaires and the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI), used as the reference standard. Both AUDIT and DUDIT were valid (area under the curve above 0.92) and reliable (Cronbach's alpha above 0.89) in psychotic and nonpsychotic men and women. The suitable cutoff scores for AUDIT were higher among the psychotic than nonpsychotic patients, with 12 versus 10 in men and 8 versus 5 in women. The suitable cutoff scores for DUDIT were 1 in both psychotic and nonpsychotic women, and 5 versus 1 in psychotic and nonpsychotic men, respectively. This study shows that AUDIT and DUDIT may provide precise information about emergency psychiatric patients' problematic alcohol and drug use.
research-article	EAR346178	The Concepts of Rash Impulsiveness and Reward Sensitivity in Substance Use Disorders The Concepts of Rash Impulsiveness and Reward Sensitivity in Substance Use Disorders According to recent theories of addiction, the commonly used term impulsivity comprises two factors: rash impulsiveness and reward sensitivity. The present study addresses the relevance and generalizability of this two-factor model in a clinical sample of substance use disorder patients. This was examined by examining both internal and external validity. In addition, a comparison was made between self-reported and behavioral measures reflecting reward sensitivity and rash impulsiveness. Results provide evidence for the existence of the two hypothesized impulsivity factors in a clinical sample of substance dependent patients. Meaningful relationships between the model and drug use characteristics have been found, providing further evidence for the validity of the two-factor model. Furthermore, it is suggested that behavioral and self-report measures of impulsivity represent different constructs.
systematic-review	EAR346674	"The Experience of Long-Term Opiate Maintenance Treatment and Reported Barriers to Recovery: A Qualitative Systematic Review The Experience of Long-Term Opiate Maintenance Treatment and Reported Barriers to Recovery: A Qualitative Systematic Review Background/Aim: To inform understanding of the experience of long-term opiate maintenance and identify barriers to recovery. Methods: A qualitative systematic review. Results: 14 studies in 17 papers, mainly from the USA (65%), met inclusion criteria, involving 1,088 participants. Studies focused on methadone prescribing. Participants reported stability; however, many disliked methadone. Barriers to full recovery were primarily ‘inward focused'. Conclusion: This is the first review of qualitative literature on long-term maintenance, finding that universal service improvements could be made to address reported barriers to recovery, including involving ex-users as positive role models, and increasing access to psychological support. Treatment policies combining harm minimisation and abstinence-orientated approaches may best support individualised recovery."
research-article	EAR346783	Impaired Error-Monitoring Function in People with Internet Addiction Disorder: An Event-Related fMRI Study Impaired Error-Monitoring Function in People with Internet Addiction Disorder: An Event-Related fMRI Study Background: Internet addiction disorder (IAD) is rapidly becoming a prevalent mental health concern around the world. The neurobiological underpinnings of IAD should be studied to unravel the potential heterogeneity. This study was set to investigate the error-monitoring ability in IAD subjects. Methods: Fifteen IAD subjects and 15 healthy controls (HC) participated in this study. Participants were asked to perform a fast Stroop task that may show error responses. Behavioral and neurobiological results in relation to error responses were compared between IAD subjects and HC. Results: Compared to HC, IAD subjects showed increased activation in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and decreased activation in the orbitofrontal cortex following error responses. Significant correlation was found between ACC activation and the Internet addiction test scores. Conclusions: IAD subjects show an impaired error-monitoring ability compared to HC, which can be detected by the hyperactivation in ACC in error responses.
systematic-review	EAR347055	"Efficacy and Tolerability of Baclofen in Substance Use Disorders: A Systematic Review Efficacy and Tolerability of Baclofen in Substance Use Disorders: A Systematic Review Background: It has been reported that baclofen, a drug used in the treatment of spasticity, reduces the severity of withdrawal symptoms and substance use disorders (SUDs) for some psychoactive drugs. Aims and Methods: To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of baclofen in the treatment of withdrawal syndrome and/or SUDs, providing (1) an outline of its pharmacological features; (2) a summary of studies that have suggested its possible effectiveness in the treatment of SUDs, and (3) a review of randomized, controlled trials (RCTs) on baclofen and SUDs. Results: Baclofen tolerability is generally considered to be good. Eleven RCTs investigated its effectiveness in the treatment of SUDs. Of these, 5 RCTs found that baclofen is effective, 5 RCTs found that it is ineffective and the results of 1 RCT were not appreciable because it did not achieve the preplanned level of participation. Conclusions: The number of RCTs on baclofen and SUDs is still low, and their results are divergent. Further RCTs should be undertaken, particularly with higher doses of baclofen. Its administration may be suggested in patients who fail to respond to other approved drugs or who are affected by liver disease that prevents their administration, or in patients affected by SUDs for which no approved drugs are available. Treatment should be conducted under strict medical supervision."
systematic-review	EAR435877	Brief in Person Interventions for Adolescents and Young Adults Following Alcohol-Related Events in Emergency Care: A Systematic Review and European Evidence Synthesis Brief in Person Interventions for Adolescents and Young Adults Following Alcohol-Related Events in Emergency Care: A Systematic Review and European Evidence Synthesis Background: Increasing numbers of youth in need of emergency medical treatment following alcohol intoxication have been a major public health concern in Europe in recent years. Brief interventions (BIs) in the emergency department (ED) could prevent future risky drinking. However, effectiveness and feasibility of this approach are currently unclear. Method: A systematic literature search on controlled trials including participants aged 12-25 years treated in an ED following an alcohol-related event was conducted. Additionally, a grey literature search was conducted to support findings from the systematic review with evidence from practice projects and uncontrolled trials. Data on effectiveness, acceptance, implementation and reach were extracted. Results: Seven randomised controlled trials (RCT), 6 practice projects, 1 non-randomised pilot study and 1 observational study were identified. Six RCTs found reductions of alcohol use for all participants. Four RCTs found effects on alcohol consumption, alcohol-related risk-behaviour or referral to treatment. Participation and referral rates varied strongly, whereas data on acceptance and implementation were rarely assessed. Conclusion: Heterogeneity of study designs and effects limit conclusions on effectiveness of BIs for young ED patients following an alcohol-related event. However, the number of practice projects in Europe indicates a need perceived by practitioners to address this population.
systematic-review	EAR438988	"The Impact of Misuse and Diversion of Opioid Substitution Treatment Medicines: Evidence Review and Expert Consensus The Impact of Misuse and Diversion of Opioid Substitution Treatment Medicines: Evidence Review and Expert Consensus Background/Aims: Opioid substitution treatment (OST) improves outcomes in opioid dependence. However, controlled drugs used in treatment may be misused or diverted, resulting in negative treatment outcomes. This review defines a framework to assess the impact of misuse and diversion. Methods: A systematic review of published studies of misuse and diversion of OST medicines was completed; this evidence was paired with expert real-world experience to better understand the impact of misuse and diversion on the individual and on society. Results: Direct impact to the individual includes failure to progress in recovery and negative effects on health (overdose, health risks associated with injecting behaviour). Diversion of OST has impacts on a community that is beyond the intended OST recipient. The direct impact includes risk to others (unsupervised use; unintended exposure of children to diverted medication) and drug-related criminal behavior. The indirect impact includes the economic costs of untreated opioid dependence, crime and loss of productivity. Conclusion: While treatment for opioid dependence is essential and must be supported, it is vital to reduce misuse and diversion while ensuring the best possible care. Understanding the impact of OST misuse and diversion is key to defining strategies to address these issues."
systematic-review	EAR441777	Psychosocial Determinants of Cannabis Dependence: A Systematic Review of the Literature Psychosocial Determinants of Cannabis Dependence: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background: Many studies have examined factors associated with the first onset of cannabis use and abuse. Currently, there is relatively little research regarding conditions under which cannabis dependence is more likely to emerge. Although previous studies have examined different potential determinants of cannabis dependence, to our knowledge, a systematic review is lacking. Aims: The study aims to identify recent findings regarding psychosocial determinants of cannabis dependence and to summarize them systematically. Methods: A literature search in 4 databases - Embase, Medline, PsycINFO and PSYNDEX - was conducted. Searches were limited to publications between 2000 and April 2014, English and German as languages and humans as study subjects. Results: Our search detected a total of 10,568 studies. Twenty-six studies finally met inclusion criteria. Consumption patterns such as a regular cannabis use independent of social context and an early onset of use (11-15 years) were correlates of cannabis dependence. Moreover, early reactions to cannabis use and coping-oriented use motives explained additional variance. Stress factors and critical life events such as parental separation and early parental death as well as mental and social conflicts have also been linked with development of cannabis dependence. Additionally, comorbid mental disorders correlated with cannabis dependence. Conclusion: Numerous factors were shown to have an impact on transition to cannabis dependence. In particular, a wide range of mental disorders has been linked to an elevated risk of becoming dependent. The development of a dependence syndrome seems to be associated with diverse processes, in which social, biological and intra-individual factors interact in a complex manner. Nevertheless, the link between cannabis dependence and predisposing factors could not be resolved convincingly by most studies due to methodological weaknesses regarding dependence criteria.
research-article	EAR444676	TPH1 and 5-HTTLPR Genes Specifically Interact in Opiate Dependence but Not in Alcohol Dependence TPH1 and 5-HTTLPR Genes Specifically Interact in Opiate Dependence but Not in Alcohol Dependence Background: Different drug dependencies may have unique genetic vulnerabilities. Changes in serotonin availability and function have been linked to addiction. We investigated whether 2 serotonergic polymorphisms, TPH1 A218C (rs1800532) and 5-HTT-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR) (rs25531), are differently associated with alcohol or opiate dependence. Methods: Alcohol-dependent patients (n = 292), opiate-dependent patients (n = 309), and healthy controls (n = 301) were recruited from the Han Chinese population in Taiwan. Genotypes of TPH1 A218C and 5-HTTLPR polymorphisms were analyzed using a polymerase chain reaction with restriction fragment length polymorphism. Results: The genotype frequencies of the TPH1 A218C polymorphisms were not significantly different in the 3 groups. The genotype frequencies of the 5-HTTLPR S+ (S/S, S/LG, LG/LG) polymorphisms were significantly higher in opiate-dependent patients (&
meta-analysis	EAR445716	Digital Interventions for Problematic Cannabis Users in Non-Clinical Settings: Findings from a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Digital Interventions for Problematic Cannabis Users in Non-Clinical Settings: Findings from a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Existing cannabis treatment programs reach only a very limited proportion of people with cannabis-related problems. The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to assess the effectiveness of digital interventions applied outside the health care system in reducing problematic cannabis use. Methods: We systematically searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (2015), PubMed (2009-2015), Medline (2009-2015), Google Scholar (2015) and article reference lists for potentially eligible studies. Randomized controlled trials examining the effects of internet- or computer-based interventions were assessed. Study effects were estimated by calculating effect sizes (ESs) using Cohen's d and Hedges' g bias-corrected ES. The primary outcome assessed was self-reported cannabis use, measured by a questionnaire. Results: Fifty-two studies were identified. Four studies (including 1,928 participants) met inclusion criteria. They combined brief motivational interventions and cognitive behavioral therapy delivered online. All studies were of good quality. The pooled mean difference (&
systematic-review	EAR446022	Parental Smoking and Smoking Cognitions among Youth: A Systematic Review of the Literature Parental Smoking and Smoking Cognitions among Youth: A Systematic Review of the Literature Aims: We summarized and discussed the empirical evidence for an association between parental smoking and smoking-related cognitions among youth and for the mediating role of smoking-related cognitions in the relation between parental and youth smoking behaviour. Methods: We conducted a systematic review of articles published between 1980 and February 2015 using the databases PsychInfo and PubMed. Results: The systematic search resulted in 41 eligible studies. Only 4 studies investigated smoking-related cognitions as putative mediators in the association between parental and youth smoking. The synthesis of evidence showed a mix of significant and non-significant associations between parental smoking and smoking-related cognitions among youth. A majority of results reported positive associations even when non-significant findings were found. However, studies that report an effect suggest that the effect may be quite modest. Conclusion: Empirical evidence does not confirm the commonly applied assertions of social learning theories that parental smoking increases the risk of youth smoking through the development of favourable smoking-related cognitions. Methodological and theoretical aspects that might explain the lack of consistent findings are discussed.
review-article	EAR478904	A Brief Outline of the Use of New Technologies for Treating Substance Use Disorders in the European Union A Brief Outline of the Use of New Technologies for Treating Substance Use Disorders in the European Union Background: Clinicians in the field of drug addiction have started to exploit the growth of Technology-Based Interventions (TBIs). However, there is little information on how health personnel evaluate them. Methods: Semi-structured interviews were conducted among 20 European experts. Results: All of the interviewees recognised TBIs as a valuable tool to improve the management of substance-use disorders (SUDs). Most interviewees indicated that combining both traditional face-to-face therapist-patient clinic appointment with TBIs is probably the most effective method. Most interviewees agree that TBIs are valuable tools to overcome both physical and social barriers, and hence significantly facilitate the access to treatment. Poor infrastructure and lack of digital literacy are recognised as major barriers to the diffusion of these tools. Conclusions: The application of various forms of technology in SUD treatment is an interesting development for the European Union. Technical and non-technical barriers exist and impede their full exploitation.
meta-analysis	EAR480539	"Naltrexone in the Treatment of Broadly Defined Behavioral Addictions: A Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Naltrexone in the Treatment of Broadly Defined Behavioral Addictions: A Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Introduction: Broadly defined behavioral addiction is a conceptual framework including behaviors characterized by loss of control and continuation despite significant negative consequences. Broadly defined behavioral addictions share many similarities with substance use disorders. As naltrexone is one of the most studied treatment for substance use disorders, we conducted a meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled trials (RCT) assessing the effectiveness of naltrexone in the treatment of broadly defined behavioral addictions. Method: We conducted a literature search and selection, up to January 1, 2017, according to previously set inclusion criteria. The selected trials underwent a quality assessment before data extraction and statistical analysis, which used fixed and random effects models. Standardized mean differences (SMD) were calculated using Hedge's adjusted g. Results: A total of 6 RCTs (n = 356) were included. Of these, 3 assessed naltrexone effectiveness in the treatment of pathological gambling, and 3 tested its benefits in broadly defined behavioral addictions other than pathological gambling (kleptomania, trichotillomania, and impulsive compulsive disorders). The meta-analysis of the whole sample resulted in a statistically significant score improvement under naltrexone versus placebo (fixed effect model: SMD = -0.27, 95% CI [-0.51 to -0.03], z = 2.23; p = 0.025). Conclusion: The results of our meta-analysis suggest a beneficial effect of naltrexone in the treatment of broadly defined behavioral addictions."
research-article	EAR495188	"The LASSO Program in Oslo: Harm Reduction Using Buprenorphine-Naloxone (Suboxone®) in a Low Threshold Setting The LASSO Program in Oslo: Harm Reduction Using Buprenorphine-Naloxone (Suboxone®) in a Low Threshold Setting Background: This is a 6-year retrospective quality control study of the LASSO Program (Low Threshold Substitution Treatment in Oslo), using exclusively Suboxone® (buprenorphine-naloxone [BPNX]) in out-patient settings. Adequate abstinence prior to induction is necessary to avoid acute onset opioid withdrawal symptoms; thus, its use in low threshold settings is far less common than methadone. Objectives: The aim of this study was to determine if BPNX is a safe and feasible medication to use in a low threshold setting. Methods: The analysis is based on daily supervised BPNX medication. The standardized induction regime started with 4-mg BPNX increasing by 4 mg daily until 16 mg, with individual adjustments based on clinical status. Treatment effect was evaluated by the number of medication induction attempts, treatment length and lag time between initial contact and medication start. Statistical computations were performed with SPSS®. Results: There were 331 out of 394 registered patient inquires that started on BPNX. Two hundred fifty-three patients (76.4%) completed induction on first attempt with 95% Wilson score CIs of (0.716–0.807). The accumulated percentage increased to 85.2% during successive inductions. No significant association was found between lag time and (i) the number of days on medication during the first induction; or (ii) total treatment length. Patients had a median lag time of 5 days, remained in treatment a median of 52.0 days with an average of 3.9 inductions. There were no cases of severe precipitated withdrawal and only 2 cases of adverse reactions among the 1,293 inductions and 25,544 administered dosages. Conclusion: This study shows that BPNX is highly effective in treating marginalized heroin addicts in low threshold settings. Even during their first attempt, 76.4% completed induction. There were no cases of severe precipitated withdrawal. Prolonged lag time affected neither the length of first treatment nor the total treatment length. Individualized induction readiness approach and motivation were central to the above results."
research-article	EAR495362	Expression Levels of the Tyrosine Hydroxylase Gene and Histone Modifications Around its Promoter in the Locus Coeruleus and Ventral Tegmental Area of Rats during Forced Abstinence from Morphine Expression Levels of the Tyrosine Hydroxylase Gene and Histone Modifications Around its Promoter in the Locus Coeruleus and Ventral Tegmental Area of Rats during Forced Abstinence from Morphine Background: Epigenetic mechanisms such as histone modifications may be involved in the structural and behavioral changes associated with addiction. We studied whether morphine-induced changes in mRNA levels of the catecholamine biosynthesis enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), are associated with histone modifications around the promoter of this gene in the locus coeruleus (LC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) of rats. Methods: Dependence was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injections of morphine for 11 days. The animals were killed 2 h (chronic morphine), 24 h and 7 days (spontaneous withdrawal) after the last injection of morphine. Results: Analysis of our real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR results by 1-way ANOVA showed significant upregulation (5.13 ± 0.39 folds) of LC levels of the TH transcript 24 h after the last injection of morphine to rats, when compared with 2 h and 7 days time points. Chronic morphine and morphine abstinence failed to cause any significant changes in the levels of TH mRNA in the VTA after cessation of morphine. Consistently, chromatin immunoprecipitation real-time quantitative PCR assays revealed that 24 h after the last injection of morphine, levels of H3 acetylation were significantly increased (4.12 ± 0.38 folds) at the promoter of the TH gene in the LC but not in the VTA. Our data also showed that histone H3 trimethylation failed to change around the TH gene promoter either in the VTA or in the LC after morphine abstinence. Conclusions: Results of the present study, for the first time, demonstrate the involvement of histone H3 acetylation in the regulation of TH gene expression in the LC of rats during forced abstinence from morphine.
review-article	ENE285183	Primary and Secondary Prevention of Ischemic Stroke Primary and Secondary Prevention of Ischemic Stroke Prevention of stroke and transient ischemic attack includes both conventional approaches to vascular risk factor management (blood pressure lowering, cholesterol reduction with statins, smoking cessation and antiplatelet therapy) and more specific interventions, such as carotid revascularization or anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation. The objective of this review is to discuss effective interventions for optimal primary and secondary stroke prevention.
review-article	ENE300647	When Do Levodopa Motor Fluctuations First Appear in Parkinson’s Disease? When Do Levodopa Motor Fluctuations First Appear in Parkinson’s Disease? Although levodopa provides therapeutic benefit over the entire course of Parkinson’s disease, most patients eventually notice a decline in the duration of benefit from each dose, a phenomenon termed ‘wearing-off’ or ‘end of dose’ deterioration. This is an important indicator that the patient is entering a more complex phase of the disease. Wearing-off has been classically associated with the later stages of Parkinson’s disease, but it is becoming apparent that patients with early disease, presenting as well controlled, may already be experiencing fluctuations in their response to levodopa. However, neither the pathophysiology nor the clinical relevance of the early emergence of wearing-off has been properly explored. We now review the preclinical and clinical evidence that suggests that even patients who are apparently still in the honeymoon phase of drug treatment may have early fluctuations in their motor response to dopaminergic therapy. It is important that early wearing-off is recognized as it has important consequences for the long-term outcome and for the medication regimens to be used.
case-report	ENE324170	Tuberculous Encephalopathy without Meningitis: Pathology and Brain MRI Findings Tuberculous Encephalopathy without Meningitis: Pathology and Brain MRI Findings Tuberculous encephalopathy (TBE) is an established disease entity of diffuse cerebral damage occurring with tuberculosis and an underlying immune pathogenesis. However, the presence of this disease entity remains controversial. We report a 15-year-old boy with seizures and a progressive decline of cognitive function. Brain MRI showed diffuse, hyperintense lesions in the white matter on a T2-weighted image, with gadolinium enhancement on a T1-weighted image. Brain biopsy revealed demyelination and granuloma in the white matter. Ziehl-Neelsen staining showed acid-fast bacilli in the granulomas. Antituberculous medication with concomitant steroid treatment resulted in radiological resolution in addition to clinical improvement. Clinicopathological evidence in this case provides additional convincing evidence of TBE as a disease entity distinct from tuberculous meningitis.
systematic-review	ENE355140	Epidemiology of Multiple Sclerosis in Iran: A Systematic Review Epidemiology of Multiple Sclerosis in Iran: A Systematic Review Background: There is a wide variation in the prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS) in different geographical regions and the epidemiology of MS in Iran has been a major topic of concern during the last decade. Several population-based studies have shown a sharp increase in the prevalence and incidence of MS in this region. In this study, for the first time, the aim was to provide a comprehensive review regarding the incidence and prevalence of MS across Iran. Methods: A comprehensive literature search was performed using PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science. We also did a manual search of reference lists from primary articles and relevant reviews. Databases of ongoing research and unpublished literature were also searched. Results: A total of 22 relevant studies were reviewed and 11 studies met the inclusion criteria. Incidence data were found in 5 studies and ranged from 0.68 to 9.1/100,000 per year in the Iranian population. Prevalence was reported in all studies and ranged from 5.3 to 74.28/100,000 with the higher prevalence among females (female/male ratio ranged from 1.8 to 3.6). The most prevalent subtype of MS was the relapsing-remitting form (65.8-87.8%). The sensory disturbance was the most initial presentation. Conclusion: The incidence and prevalence of MS in Iran has been increasing rapidly, especially in females. Future research should focus on determining the epidemiological features of MS in the neglected provinces with different ethnicities. Such an effort along with further research towards improvement of data on previously studied areas can enable a field to be opened up to identify the patterns of MS in varied genetic backgrounds and environments of Iran.
meta-analysis	ENE363054	"Hyperhomocysteinemia and Risk of Cognitive Decline: A Meta-Analysis of Prospective Cohort Studies Hyperhomocysteinemia and Risk of Cognitive Decline: A Meta-Analysis of Prospective Cohort Studies Objective: To evaluate the association between hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) and risk of cognitive decline. Methods: Electronic databases such as PubMed and EMBASE were searched for prospective cohort studies that involved the relationship between HHcy and risk of cognitive decline. Adjusted risk ratios (RRs) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated by Review Manager 5.2.7. Subgroup analyses were conducted on stratification of some important variables. Results: Fourteen publications were included in the analysis. The pooled RR was 1.53 (95% CI, 1.23-1.91; p = 0.0002) for patients with HHcy compared to subjects without HHcy. Subgroup analyses indicated that the pooled RRs were 1.51 (95% CI, 1.10-2.05; p = 0.01) for more than five-year follow-up studies and 1. 56 (95% CI, 1.13-2.14; p = 0.007) for less than five-year follow-up studies. The pooled RRs were 1.66 (95% CI, 1.21-2.26; p = 0.001) for studies excluding the confounder of B vitamins and 1.34 (95% CI, 1.08-1.66; p = 0.008) for non-excluded studies. In terms of region, the pooled RR was 1.60 (95% CI, 1.21-2.13; p = 0.001) for European and American countries, while the pooled RR was 1.27 (95% CI, 1.02-1.59; p = 0.03) for other regions. Conclusion: As one of the independent risk factors, HHcy was associated with an increased risk of cognitive decline."
meta-analysis	ENE366200	"Post-Thrombolysis Hemorrhage Risk of Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms Post-Thrombolysis Hemorrhage Risk of Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms Background/Aims: It has been questioned whether patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms (IAs) are at a greater risk for the development of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) following thrombolytic therapy. We thus performed a meta-analysis to better quantify the risk of post-thrombolysis ICH in patients with acute ischemic stroke and incidental IAs. Methods: We searched PubMed, Web of Science and EMBASE for studies assessing ICH risk in patients with acute ischemic stroke treated with thrombolysis, in relation to the presence of pretreatment IAs. A fixed-effects model meta-analysis was performed. Results: We identified four studies totaling 707 participants receiving intravenous thrombolysis. The prevalence of unruptured IAs was 6.8%. Pooled analysis demonstrates relative risk (RR) for the presence of unruptured IAs and the development of any ICH to be 1.204 (95% CI 0.709-2.043; p = 0.492; I2 = 0.0%). The RR for sICH is 1.645 (95% CI 0.453-5.970; p = 0.449; I2 = 28.1%). Conclusion: Intravenous thrombolysis was safe among patients with acute ischemic stroke and incidental unruptured IAs. Future prospective studies with much larger sample sizes are required to clarify the significance of the association between pre-existing unruptured IAs and the development of post-thrombolysis ICH. i 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel"
meta-analysis	ENE367892	"Safety and Efficacy of Rasagiline in Addition to Levodopa for the Treatment of Idiopathic Parkinson's Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Randomised Controlled Trials Safety and Efficacy of Rasagiline in Addition to Levodopa for the Treatment of Idiopathic Parkinson's Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Randomised Controlled Trials Background: To assess the safety and efficacy of rasagiline for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) among individuals currently receiving levodopa. Methods: A systematic literature search was conducted to identify randomised controlled trials (RCT) comparing rasagiline with placebo/no treatment in individuals with PD currently receiving levodopa. Outcome measures included improvement in motor functions; symptomatic improvement; improvement in quality of life; adverse effects. Random-effect meta-analytical techniques were conducted for the outcome measure and subgroup analyses. Results: Three RCTs were included (n = 1002). The results showed significantly greater improvements in daily ‘on' time without dyskinesia in levodopa-treated participants with idiopathic PD receiving 1 mg/day rasagiline compared to placebo (n = 712, 2 RCTs, MD 0.80, CI 0.45 to 1.15; p &lt; 0.00001), and significantly greater improvements in Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor performance scores during ‘on' time in participants receiving 0.5-1 mg/day rasagiline (0.5 mg/day: n = 282, MD -2.91, CI -4.59 to -1.23; p = 0.0007; 1 mg/day: n = 712, 2 RCTs, MD -2.91, CI -4.02 to -1.80; p &lt; 0.00001). There were no significant differences in adverse effects. Conclusion: 0.5 to 1 mg/day rasagiline in addition to levodopa is a safe and well-tolerated combination therapy for individuals with Parkinson's disease."
meta-analysis	ENE441446	"Efficacy and Safety of Citalopram in Treating Post-Stroke Depression: A Meta-Analysis Efficacy and Safety of Citalopram in Treating Post-Stroke Depression: A Meta-Analysis Background and Purpose: To evaluate the citalopram in post-stroke depression treatment, we compared its use to other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs). Methods: We searched databases up to May 2015. Relative risk (RR) for dichotomous data and standard mean difference (SMD) for continuous variables were analyzed using Stata 13.1. Results: The RR of the efficacy index compared to TCAs was 1.07 (95% CI 1.01-1.14, p = 0.02), and the Hamilton Depression Scale with citalopram was lower than that found with other SSRIs (SMD -0.43, 95% CI -0.85 to -0.01, p &lt; 0.05) and TCAs (SMD -0.31, 95% CI -0.50 to -0.12, p &lt; 0.05) in 6-week. The Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale with citalopram was lower than that with other SSRIs (SMD -0.33, 95% CI -0.56 to -0.10, p = 0.01, 1-week). The p values were all &gt;0.05 on citalopram vs. TCMs. Conclusions: The efficacy of citalopram maybe not very significant compared to that of other SSRIs or TCAs. But citalopram has fewer side effects especially in the first week. We, however, need further researches to compare citalopram to TCMs in future."
meta-analysis	ENE442572	Influence of End-Stage Renal Disease on Hematoma Volume and Intraventricular Hemorrhage in Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Cohort Study and Meta-Analysis Influence of End-Stage Renal Disease on Hematoma Volume and Intraventricular Hemorrhage in Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Cohort Study and Meta-Analysis Objective: To assess the association between end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and hematoma volume and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), we performed a meta-analysis of all available evidence, including data from our own center. Methods: We reviewed major literature databases to identify studies on association between ESRD and hematoma volume and IVH, and the association between ESRD and hematoma site. We then combined these data with those from our own retrospective cohort study. The relationship between ESRD and functional outcome was analyzed using logistic regression. Results: Our retrospective study involved 15 patients with ESRD of 302 subjects. The results showed that patients with ESRD had larger hematoma volume (p = 0.028), higher proportion of patients with hematoma volume over 30 ml (OR 3.89, 95% CI 1.20-12.56 in model 1 and OR 3.72, 95% CI 1.15-12.06 in model 3), and higher incidence of IVH (OR 3.45, 95% CI 1.14-10.46 in model 1 and OR 3.22, 95% CI 1.07-9.66 in model 2) than patients without ESRD. The meta-analysis further supported a relationship between the risk of ESRD and hematoma volume (p = 0.014), as well as IVH (OR 2.82, 95% CI 2.03-3.91). On multivariate analysis, ESRD was significantly associated with the mortality at the third month (OR 7.534, 95% CI 1.495-38.491). Conclusions: Evidence strongly suggests that ESRD is independently associated with hematoma volume and IVH, and is an independent risk factor for mortality at the third month.
meta-analysis	ENE444253	"Efficacy of Cholinesterase Inhibitors in Vascular Dementia: An Updated Meta-Analysis Efficacy of Cholinesterase Inhibitors in Vascular Dementia: An Updated Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: The objective of this study was to determine whether treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors would provide cognitive benefit for patients with vascular dementia. Methods: Studies in patients with vascular dementia, who had not taken acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or memantine for at least 6 weeks, were included. Results: Twelve studies were included in the final analysis. Donepezil showed significant improvement in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) as compared to placebo, at the doses tested, that is, 5 and 10 mg/day (difference in means -1.389 and -1.680, respectively, p ≤ 0.008), but not on the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) (p ≥ 0.259). Galantamine also improved the ADAS-cog in comparison to the placebo (difference in means -2.191, p &lt; 0.001), whereas, rivastigmine did not show any benefit on ADAS-cog. However, the findings with rivastigmine are difficult to interpret, given there were only 2 studies. Treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors was associated with a twofold increase in the odds of discontinuation, due to adverse events (pooled OR 1.966, 95% CI 1.630-2.371, p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: The present results reveal the therapeutic benefits of donepezil and galantamine in patients with vascular dementia. Interestingly, the ADAS-cog and MMSE varied considerably in detecting cognitive improvement."
research-article	ENE445110	Behavioural But Not Cognitive Impairment Is a Determinant of Caregiver Burden in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Behavioural But Not Cognitive Impairment Is a Determinant of Caregiver Burden in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Background: Caregivers of patients affected by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are involved with great determination in the treatment process since the earliest stages of the disease with an increasing burden to be of help to the ailing persons. Aim: To test separately the impact of ALS patients' cognitive and behavioural impairments on caregiver burden and mood status in 84 outpatient/main caregiver couples. Design: Patients were tested with the ALS-Cognitive Behavioural Screen (ALSCBS-ci and -bi), Frontal Assessment Battery, Weigl's Sorting Test, Mini-Mental State Examination, Beck's Depression Inventory (BDI). Analogously, caregivers completed the BDI and Caregiver Burden Inventory (CBI). Results: CBI correlated with ALSCBS-bi, besides ALSFRS-R, disease progression index and caregiver BDI. Caregiver BDI also correlated with ALSCBS-bi scores. No correlations were found with cognitive tests. The correlation between CBI and the ALSCBS-bi score was specifically sustained by the social burden sub-domain of CBI. Conclusions: As previously reported using other tools, behavioural impairment is a determinant of burden and mood in ALS caregivers. Conversely, cognitive impairment fails to emerge as a major target when aiming at easing the increasing burden or improving mood in ALS caregivers.
research-article	ENE445249	"Is It Acute Stroke or Not? - A Prospective Observational Study from a Multidisciplinary Emergency Department Is It Acute Stroke or Not? - A Prospective Observational Study from a Multidisciplinary Emergency Department Background: Acute stroke is a medical emergency with various clinical presentations. Since the introduction of systemic thrombolytic treatment, stroke diagnosis has been made quickly and with great caution, and the trend of rapid presentation at hospitals has increased. Methods: In our multidisciplinary Emergency Department, we prospectively collected and analysed data of consecutive patients presenting with suspected acute stroke (SAS) or transient ischemic attack (TIA). Results: Four hundred ten patients (200 men, mean age 68 ± 16, range 17-93 years) with SAS were admitted of which 105 were prehospitally announced as within the time-window for thrombolytic treatment (TW). Diagnosis of acute stroke/TIA was retained in 147 (35.9%). The initially reported TW &lt;4.5 h was wrong in 35.3%. Thrombolysis was performed in 27 patients (23.5% of ischemic stroke patients; 6.6% of all SAS). Diagnosis of another neurologic disease was made in 62 (15.1%). Major differential diagnoses came from the field of internal medicine, psychiatry or otorhinolaryngology. One hundred fifty patients (36.6%) were rapidly discharged. Conclusion: About half the number of our patients admitted for SAS did not suffer from an acute neurologic disease. Residual symptoms post-stroke might be partly responsible for initial misinterpretation. The crucial difference between symptom onset and symptom recognition needs to be emphasized to improve the prehospital assessment of the TW."
research-article	ENE445348	"Determinants of Basal Collaterals in Moyamoya Disease: Clinical and Genetic Factors Determinants of Basal Collaterals in Moyamoya Disease: Clinical and Genetic Factors Background/Aims: To enable the diagnosis of moyamoya disease (MMD), detection of distal internal carotid artery stenosis and hazy network of basal collaterals (BCs) are required. This study aimed at evaluating the factors that could determine the degree of BCs in patients with angiographically confirmed MMD. Methods: We analyzed 146 consecutive patients with MMD (age 26.2 ± 19.6, range 1-75). The degree of BCs (%) was measured based on conventional angiography. Factors associated with the degree of BCs, including clinico-radiological and genetic factors (p.Arg4810Lys variant), were analyzed. Results: The degree of BCs varied among MMD patients and significantly decreased with an increase in the age of diagnosis of MMD (coefficient -1.55; p &lt; 0.001). Although the degree of BC development depends on the MMD stage (Suzuki stage), it is less prominent in adult-onset (&gt;18 years) MMD compared to childhood MMD. The presence of p.Arg4810Lys variant, types of MMD (bilateral vs. unilateral) and stroke (ischemic, hemorrhagic, or asymptomatic), shrinkage (outer diameter) of intracranial vessels, external carotid collateral status, and cortical neovascularization were not associated with the degree of BCs. Conclusion: Although prominent BCs are required for diagnosis of MMD, BCs are decreased with aging, suggesting that angiogenic capacity is altered in adult onset MMD compared to childhood MMD."
case-report	ENE450603	Guillain-Barré Syndrome and Cerebral Hemorrhage: Two Cases and Literature Review Guillain-Barré Syndrome and Cerebral Hemorrhage: Two Cases and Literature Review Aims: The study aimed to investigate the potential relationships between Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) and cerebral hemorrhage. Methods: Two patients diagnosed with hemorrhagic stroke and GBS were reported. More specifically, the sequential occurrence and the corresponding mechanisms of these 2 diseases were analyzed. Results: Two patients with cerebral hemorrhagic stroke developed progressive flaccid quadriplegia and life-threatening dyspnea in acute stage. Combined with the cerebrospinal fluid and electromyogram results, they were diagnosed as having acute GBS. It was found that GBS and cerebral nervous system (CNS) hemorrhage can occur successively, but the different sequences of occurrence had completely different pathogeneses. GBS following CNS hemorrhage was found to be related to the imbalance of systemic inflammatory responses, whereas CNS hemorrhage following GBS was due to blood vessel autonomous dysfunction and the use of immunoglobulin intravenously. Both groups of patients had only good prognoses when they were intensively observed. Conclusions: Despite being rare, GBS complicated with CNS hemorrhage deserves more attention due to its notable impact.
meta-analysis	ENE453547	The Impact of Diabetes Mellitus on Patients Undergoing Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy: A Meta-Analysis The Impact of Diabetes Mellitus on Patients Undergoing Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy: A Meta-Analysis Aims: We conducted a meta-analysis of eligible studies to compare the surgical outcomes between diabetic patients and non-diabetic patients who have undergone cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM). Methods: A systematic literature search of PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science (up to February 10, 2016) was conducted. Eligible studies were case-control or cohort studies that compared the outcomes of cervical surgery between diabetic patients and non-diabetic patients. Weighted mean differences, risk ratios, and 95% CIs were calculated and heterogeneity was assessed with Cochrane Q chi-square test and I2 statistic. Results: Six studies with a total of 38,680 patients were included in this meta-analysis. Pooled estimates showed that diabetic patients had significantly lower Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score change between pre- and post operation, and recovery rate than patients without diabetes. Moreover, diabetic patients had significantly increased risk of operative wound, epidural/wound hematoma, chronic lung disease, and cardiac complication. Other postoperative complications, including cerebrospinal fluid leakage and C5 radiculopathy, were not significantly different between the 2 groups. Conclusion: Diabetes mellitus decreased the JOA score change and recovery rate, as well as increased the risk of postoperative complications in patients undergoing CSM. Controlling diabetes mellitus before cervical spine surgery may lead to better outcomes.
meta-analysis	ENE455842	"Temozolomide with or without Radiotherapy in Patients with Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme: A Meta-Analysis Temozolomide with or without Radiotherapy in Patients with Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aim: The current meta-analysis evaluated the survival outcomes of newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients treated with radiotherapy (RT) alone and with RT + temozolomide (TMZ). Methods: Relevant studies were identified by an extensive literature search in Medline, Current Contents and Cochrane databases by 2 independent reviewers using the terms “glioblastoma multiforme/glioblastoma, TMZ, radiation therapy/RT and survival.” Results: Results revealed a median survival of 13.41-19 months in the combined treatment group, as opposed to 7.7-17.1 months in the RT-alone group. Progression-free survival (PFS) was also significantly different between the 2 groups (RT + TMZ, 6.3-13 months; RT-alone, 5-7.6 months). While there was no significant difference in the 6-month survival and 6-month PFS rates between the RT + TMZ and RT groups (pooled OR 0.690; p = 0.057 and OR 0.429, p = 0.052, respectively), the 1-year survival and 1-year PFS rates showed significant difference (OR 0.469; p = 0.030 and OR 0.245, p &lt; 0.001, respectively). Conclusions: Concomitant RT + TMZ is more effective and improves the overall survival and PFS in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma."
meta-analysis	ENE477164	"Perioperative Strokes Following Surgical Correction of Mitral Valves: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Perioperative Strokes Following Surgical Correction of Mitral Valves: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: The primary aim of this meta-analysis was to quantify the impact of perioperative strokes on stroke-related mortality after open mitral valve (MV) procedures were performed. Methods: An electronic search of the PubMed, Embase, and the Web of Science databases was performed to retrieve articles published up to December 2015, relevant to patients undergoing MV procedures. Data were extracted from the final list of 25 studies to calculate a summary OR for 30-day stroke-related mortality. Results: The stroke rate in the total sample population was 1.62% (73/4,498). The 30-day all-cause mortality rate was 3.51% (158/4,498). The percentage of total deaths caused by stroke was 6.87%. The summary OR of stroke-related mortality following MV procedures was estimated to be 7.22 (95% CI 4.13-12.63, p &lt; 0.0001). A subgroup analysis was done for studies involving concomitant MV surgery and coronary artery bypass grafting. The summary estimate of the subgroup showed an OR of 8.508 (95% CI 1.552-46.622, p = 0.0136). Conclusion: Perioperative strokes following open MV procedures may be associated with more than 7 times greater odds of 30-day stroke-related mortality. They appear to be more commonly occurring than what is reported by current literature, making further studies investigating possible mechanisms and preventive measures a priority."
meta-analysis	ENE477165	Prevalence, Duration and Severity of Parkinson's Disease in Germany: A Combined Meta-Analysis from Literature Data and Outpatient Samples Prevalence, Duration and Severity of Parkinson's Disease in Germany: A Combined Meta-Analysis from Literature Data and Outpatient Samples Background: Epidemiological data on the prevalence of Parkinson's disease (PD) in Germany are limited. The aims of this study were to estimate the age- and gender-specific prevalence of PD in Germany as well as the severity and illness duration. Summary: A systematic literature search was performed in 5 different databases. European studies were included if they reported age- and gender-specific numbers of prevalence rates of PD. Meta-analytic approaches were applied to derive age- and gender-specific pooled prevalence estimates. Data of 4 German outpatient samples were incorporated to calculate the proportion of patients with PD in Germany grouped by Hoehn and Yahr (HY) stages and disease duration. In the German population, 178,169 cases of PD were estimated (prevalence: 217.22/100,000). The estimated relative illness duration was 40% with less than 5 years, 31% with 5-9 years, and 29% with more than 9 years. The proportions for different HY stages were estimated at 13% (I), 30% (II), 35% (III), 17% (IV), and 4% (V), respectively. Key Message: We provide an up-to-date estimation of age- and gender-specific as well as severity-based prevalence figures for PD in Germany. Further community studies are needed to estimate population-based severity distributions and distributions of non-motor symptoms in PD.
review-article	ENE477902	Disrupted Brain Network Hubs in Subtype-Specific Parkinson's Disease Disrupted Brain Network Hubs in Subtype-Specific Parkinson's Disease Background/Aims: The topological organization of brain functional networks is impaired in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the altered patterns of functional network hubs in different subtypes of PD are not completely understood. Methods: 3T resting-state functional MRI and voxel-based graph-theory analysis were employed to systematically investigate the intrinsic functional connectivity patterns of whole-brain networks. We enrolled 31 patients with PD (12 tremor dominant [TD] and 19 with postural instability/gait difficulty [PIGD]) and 22 matched healthy controls. Whole-brain voxel-wise functional networks were constructed by measuring the temporal correlations of each pair of brain voxels. Functional connectivity strength was calculated to explore the brain network hubs. Results: We found that both the TD and PIGD subtypes had comprehensive disrupted regions. These mainly involved the basal ganglia, cerebellum, superior temporal gyrus, pre- and postcentral gyri, inferior frontal gyrus, middle temporal gyrus, lingual gyrus, insula, and parahippocampal gyrus. Furthermore, the PIGD subgroup had more disrupted hubs in the cerebellum than the TD subgroup. These disruptions of hub connectivity were not correlated with the HY stage or disease duration. Conclusion: Our results emphasize the subtype-specific PD-related degeneration of brain hubs, providing novel insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms of connectivity dysfunction in different PD subgroups.
systematic-review	ENE490070	Post-Thalamic Stroke Movement Disorders: A Systematic Review Post-Thalamic Stroke Movement Disorders: A Systematic Review Background: After a stroke, movement disorders are rare manifestations mainly affecting the deep structures of the brain like the basal ganglia (44%) and thalamus (37%), although there have been case studies of movement disorders in strokes affecting the cerebral cortex also. Summary: This review aims to delineate the various movement disorders seen in association with thalamic strokes and tries to identify the location of the nuclei affected in each of the described movement disorders. Cases were identified through a search of PubMed database using different search terms related to post-thalamic stroke movement disorders and a secondary search of references of identified articles. We reviewed 2,520 research articles and only 86 papers met the inclusion criteria. Cases were included if they met criteria for post-thalamic stroke movement disorders. Case-cohort studies were also reviewed and will be discussed further. Key Messages: The most common post-stroke abnormal movement disorder reported in our review was dystonia followed by hemiataxia. There was a higher association between ischaemic stroke and movement disorder. Acute onset movement disorders were more common than delayed. The posterolateral thalamus was most commonly involved in post-thalamic stroke movement disorders.
case-report	ENE493197	Diagnostic Difficulties in Primary Pauci-Melanotic Leptomeningeal Melanomatosis Diagnostic Difficulties in Primary Pauci-Melanotic Leptomeningeal Melanomatosis We present a rare case of primary malignant melanoma of the central nervous system. We underline the difficulties we faced during diagnostic procedures. Finally, postmortem examination revealed the diagnosis of primary pauci-­melanotic leptomeningeal melanomatosis.
review-article	ENE494262	The Role of Sex Hormones in Multiple Sclerosis The Role of Sex Hormones in Multiple Sclerosis Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelination disorder with an immune-mediated pathophysiology that affects the central nervous system (CNS). Like other autoimmune conditions, it has a predilection for female gender. This suggests a gender bias and a possible hormonal association. Inflammation and demyelination are hallmarks of MS. Oligodendrocytes are the myelinating cells of the CNS and these continue to be generated by oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). The process of remyelination represents a major form of plasticity in the developing adult CNS. Remyelination does occur in MS, but the process is largely inadequate and/or incomplete. Current treatment strategies primarily focus on reducing inflammation or immunosuppression, but there is a need for more extensive research on re-myelination as a possible mechanism of treatment. Previous studies have shown that pregnancy leads to an increase in OPC proliferation, oligodendrocyte generation and the number of myelinated axons in the maternal CNS. Studies have also suggested that this remyelination is possibly mediated by estriol. Sex hormones in particular have been shown to have an immuno-protective effect in TH1-driven autoimmunity diseases. The aim of our article is to review the available research on sex hormone-specific immune modulatory effects, assess its remyelination potential in MS, and suggest a future path for more extensive research on sex hormone as a target for therapeutics in MS.
systematic-review	ESR321361	Liver Regeneration in Surgical Animal Models – A Historical Perspective and Clinical Implications Liver Regeneration in Surgical Animal Models – A Historical Perspective and Clinical Implications Methods/Aims: Despite improved preoperative evaluation, surgical techniques and perioperative intensive care, some patients still experience postoperative liver failure in part due to insufficient regeneration. The aim of this review is to give the reader a historical synopsis of the major trends in animal research on liver regeneration from the early experiments in 1877 up to modern investigation. A major focus is placed on the translational value of experimental surgery. Methods: A systematic review of the English literature published in Medline was undertaken with the search words ‘pig, porcine, dog, canine, liver regeneration, experimental’. Results: The evolution of the various models tentatively explaining the process of liver regeneration is described. Conclusions: We conclude by emphasizing the importance of large-animal surgical research on liver regeneration as it offers a more integrated, systemic biological understanding of this complex process. Furthermore, in our opinion, a closer collaboration between the hepatologist, liver surgeon/transplant surgeon and the laboratory scientist may advance clinically relevant research in liver regeneration.
systematic-review	ESR330748	"Choosing the Best Animal Species to Mimic Clinical Colon Anastomotic Leakage in Humans: A Qualitative Systematic Review Choosing the Best Animal Species to Mimic Clinical Colon Anastomotic Leakage in Humans: A Qualitative Systematic Review Background/Aims: Animal models are valuable for studying pathogenic factors and preventive measures for colon anastomotic leakage. The suitability of the species as models varies greatly; however, no consensus exists on which species to use. The aim of this review was to evaluate different experimental animals for the study of clinical colon anastomotic leakage. Methods: PubMed and REX database were searched up to October 2010 to identify studies evaluating clinical colon anastomotic leakage in animal models and textbooks on experimental animals, respectively. Results: Functional models of clinical colon anastomotic leakage have been developed in the mouse, pig, rat, dog and rabbit. However, extreme interventions are needed in order to produce clinical leakage in the rat. Conclusion: Despite the wide use of the rat in this field of research, it seems that its resistance to intra-abdominal infection makes clinical leakage difficult to produce thus rendering the rat unsuited as a model. On the basis of the available literature, we recommend using mice as models mimicking clinical colon anastomotic leakage. Pigs may be an alternative; however, the existing models in this animal are less validated and clinically relevant."
research-article	ESR348411	"Local Ischaemia Does Not Influence Anastomotic Healing: An Experimental Study Local Ischaemia Does Not Influence Anastomotic Healing: An Experimental Study The role of local ischaemia in the pathogenesis of colorectal anastomotic leakage (AL) is not known. This study investigates the role of local ischaemia caused by sutures in an experimental colonic anastomosis model. 36 mice were assigned to three types of anastomosis, all using running sutures; in the first group 5 stitches were used, in the second group 12 stitches were used, and in the third group at least 30 stitches were used. After 7 days the mice were re-operated, signs of AL were scored, and coronal sections of the anastomosis were histologically analyzed. The distribution of weight was not significantly different between the three groups. Mortality was 44% and not significantly different between the groups (group 1: 5/12, group 2: 4/12, and group 3: 7/12, p = 0.72). Faecal and purulent AL were observed in 6 animals in group 1, 2 in group 2, and 3 in group 3 (group 1: 50%, group 2: 17%, and group 3: 25%, p = 0.19). The distance between the two colonic edges (group 1: 0.51 μm, group 2: 1.34 μm, and group 3: 0.53 μm, p = 0.18), the diameter of the lumen at the site of the anastomosis (group 1: 2.92 μm, group 2: 4.06 μm, and group 3: 3.2 μm, p = 0.9), and the largest diameter of the lumen proximally to the anastomosis (group 1: 2.05 μm, group 2: 3.1 μm, and group 3: 2.6 μm, p = 0.25) were not different between the groups. Histological parameters of wound healing were not significantly different for the three groups. In this study no macroscopic and microscopic differences were observed between colon anastomosis with 5 stitches versus 12 and &gt;30 stitches. This might indicate that local ischaemia does not negatively influence colonic wound healing."
systematic-review	ESR366418	Fibrin Glue Does Not Improve Healing of Gastrointestinal Anastomoses: A Systematic Review Fibrin Glue Does Not Improve Healing of Gastrointestinal Anastomoses: A Systematic Review Background/Aim: Anastomotic leakage remains a frequent and serious complication in gastrointestinal surgery. In order to reduce its incidence, several clinical and experimental studies on anastomotic sealing have been performed. In a number of these studies, the sealing material has been fibrin glue (FG), and the results in individual studies have been varying. The positive effect of anastomotic sealing with FG might be due to the mechanical/physical properties, the increased healing of the anastomoses or both. The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the existing evidence on the healing effects of FG on gastrointestinal anastomoses. Methods: PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane databases were searched for studies evaluating the healing process of gastrointestinal anastomoses after any kind of FG application. The search period was from 1953 to December 2013. Results: Twenty-eight studies were included in the qualitative synthesis. These studies were all experimental studies, since no human studies used histological or biochemical evaluation of healing. In 7 of the 28 studies, a positive effect of FG on healing was found, while 8 studies reported a negative effect and 11 studies found no effect. Furthermore, 2 studies reported unclear results. The difference in the study outcome was independent of the study design and the type of FG used. Conclusion: In the available studies, FG did not consistently have a positive influence on the healing of gastrointestinal anastomoses. It is consequently plausible that the positive effect of FG sealing of gastrointestinal anastomoses, if there is any, may be due to a mechanical sealing effect rather than due to improved healing per se.
systematic-review	ESR367940	"Evidence-Based Medicine in Daily Surgical Decision Making: A Survey-Based Comparison between the UK and Germany Evidence-Based Medicine in Daily Surgical Decision Making: A Survey-Based Comparison between the UK and Germany Background: Evidence-based medicine (EbM) is a vital part of reasonable and conclusive decision making for clinicians in daily clinical work. To analyze the knowledge and the attitude of surgeons towards EbM, a survey was performed in the UK and Germany. Methods: A web-based questionnaire was distributed via mailing lists from the Royal College of Surgeons of England (RCSE) and the Berufsverband Deutscher Chirurgen (BDC). Our primary aim was to get information about knowledge of EbM amongst German and British surgeons. Results: A total of 549 individuals opened the questionnaire, but only 198 questionnaires were complete and valid for analysis. In total, 40,000 recipients were approached via the mailing lists of the BDC and RCSE. The response rate was equally low in both countries. On a scale from 1 (unimportant) to 10 (very important), all participants rated EbM as very important for daily clinical decision making (7.3 ± 1.9) as well as for patients (7.8 ± 1.9) and the national health system (7.8 ± 1.9). On a scale from 1 (unimportant) to 5 (very important), systematic reviews (4.6 ± 0.6) and randomized controlled trials (4.6 ± 0.6) were identified as the highest levels of study designs to enhance evidence in medicine. British surgeons considered EbM to be more important in daily clinical work when compared to data from German surgeons (7.9 ± 1.6 vs. 6.7 ± 2.1, p &lt; 0.001). Subgroup analysis showed different results in some categories; however, a pattern to explain the differences was not evident. Personal requirements expressed in a free text field emphasized the results and reflected concerns such as broad unwillingness and lack of interdisciplinary approaches for patients (n = 59: 25 in the UK and 34 in Germany). Conclusion: The overall results show that EbM is believed to be important by surgeons in the UK and Germany. However, perception of EbM in the respective health system (UK vs. Germany) may be different. Nonetheless, EbM is an important tool to navigate through daily clinical problems although a discrepancy between the knowledge of theoretical abstract terms and difficulties in implementing EbM in daily clinical work has been detected. The provision of infrastructure, courses and structured education as a permanent instrument will advance the knowledge, application and improvement of EbM in the future."
systematic-review	ESR369529	"Clinical Endpoint, Early Detection, and Differential Diagnosis of Postoperative Ileus: A Systematic Review of the Literature Clinical Endpoint, Early Detection, and Differential Diagnosis of Postoperative Ileus: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background: This systematic review summarizes evidence regarding clinical endpoints, early detection, and differential diagnosis of postoperative ileus (POI). Methods: Using MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane, and Web-of-Science, we identified 2,084 articles. Risk of bias and level of evidence (LOE) of the included articles were determined, and relevant results were summarized. Results: Eleven articles were included, most of which with substantial risks of bias. Bowel motility studies revealed that defecation together with solid food tolerance is the most representative clinical endpoint of POI (LOE: 2b); other clinical signs (e.g. bowel sounds, passage of flatus) did not correlate with a full recovery of bowel motility. Inflammatory parameters including interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1, and TNF-α might assist in an early detection of prolonged POI (LOE: 4). Clinical manifestations (e.g. nausea, vomiting, abdominal distension, bowel sounds, flatus) and X-ray examinations provided limited aid to the differential diagnosis of POI, while CT with Gastrografin had the best specificity and sensitivity (both 100%; LOE: 1c). Conclusions: Postoperative defecation together with tolerance of solid food intake seems to be the best clinical endpoint of POI. CT has the best differential diagnostic value between POI and other complications. Prospective studies with a high LOE are in great need. © 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel"
systematic-review	ESR443607	Novel Candidate Biomarkers of Chemoradiosensitivity in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Systematic Review Novel Candidate Biomarkers of Chemoradiosensitivity in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Systematic Review There is no doubt that, along with surgery, chemoradiotherapy is an important treatment for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Patients who respond well to chemoradiotherapy obtain great benefits toward overcoming their cancer, and so a more favorable prognosis. On the other hand, patients who do not respond well have wasted valuable time and experienced severe toxicity and seriously diminished quality of life, only to have their cancer recur with an unfavorable prognosis. For this reason, a reliable biomarker of chemoradiosensitivity in ESCC has long been sought. In this review, we will enumerate recently reported candidate biomarkers of chemoradiosensitivity in ESCC that have the potential for future clinical application.
research-article	ESR444320	"Behaviour of the Biological Adhesives TachoSil®, GelitaSpon®, and a New Elastic Cyanoacrylate (Adhflex®) in Experimental Renal Trauma and Wound Healing Behaviour of the Biological Adhesives TachoSil®, GelitaSpon®, and a New Elastic Cyanoacrylate (Adhflex®) in Experimental Renal Trauma and Wound Healing Background: Renal injuries are relatively frequent in abdominal trauma. In some cases, adhesives and sealants can be used to repair and preserve injured organs. This paper describes the behaviour of three biomaterials - TachoSil®, GelitaSpon®, and a new elastic cyanoacrylate (CyA), Adhflex® - in standardized experimental renal injuries. Methods: Ninety male Wistar rats (300-350 g) were used. A Stiefel Biopsy Punch (8 mm diameter, 3 mm depth) was used to create injuries to the anterior kidney to evaluate wound healing. The animals were divided into five groups: (1) sham (n = 3); (2) control (n = 6), untreated, standard punch injury created on the anterior left kidney; (3) TachoSil® (n = 27), punch injury treated with TachoSil®; (4) GelitaSpon® (n = 27), punch injury treated with GelitaSpon®, and (5) Adhflex® (n = 27), punch injury treated with the new elastic CyA adhesive. The parameters studied were bleeding time, peritoneal adhesions, and histopathological evaluation of wound healing on days 2, 6, and 18, including measurements of the gap between wound edges, inflammatory reaction (CD68), and vascular neoformation (CD31). Results: The bleeding time was significantly shorter (27.7 ± 12.9 s) in the Adhflex® group than in the control (135.8 ± 11.6 s; p &lt; 0.01), TachoSil® (77.5 ± 7.4 s; p &lt; 0.05), and GelitaSpon® (82.5 ± 14.4 s; p &lt; 0.05) groups. The incidence of intraperitoneal adhesions in the animals treated with Adhflex® was 3.6 times higher than in the non-treated group. It was also higher (p &lt; 0.04) than in the groups treated with TachoSil® and GelitaSpon®. The time point with the largest gap between the wound edges and most abundant granulation tissue was at day 6. The largest gap after 18 days was reported for the Adhflex® adhesive. With regard to the markers CD31 and CD68, Adhflex® showed the largest areas 2 days after surgery, but no differences were found after 6 and 18 days versus the other treatments. The expression of the immunomarkers on the renal samples treated with Adhflex® was consistent with a normal healing process. Conclusions: In this experimental model of renal injuries, the new elastic CyA (Adhflex®) resulted in the shortest bleeding time. It offers rapid sealing of the bleeding produced by renal injuries, fixation to adjacent tissues, and reduced occurrences of relapse. The evolution of the scarring is similar to other procedures. Given that traumatic renal injuries are always an emergency due to haemorrhage, Adhflex® might offer additional benefits over conventional treatment methods in human clinical practice."
systematic-review	ESR448706	Uniformity of Chronic Pain Assessment after Inguinal Hernia Repair: A Critical Review of the Literature Uniformity of Chronic Pain Assessment after Inguinal Hernia Repair: A Critical Review of the Literature Background: Chronic postoperative inguinal pain (CPIP) is the most common long-term complication of inguinal hernia repair. As such procedures are routinely performed, CPIP can be considered a significant burden to global health care. Therefore, adequate preventative measures relevant to surgical practice are investigated. However, as no gold standard research approach is currently available, study and outcome measures differ between studies. The current review aims to provide a qualitative analysis of the literature to seek out if outcomes of CPIP are valid and comparable, facilitating recommendations on the best approach to preventing CPIP. Methods: A systematic review of recent studies investigating CPIP was performed, comprising studies published in 2007-2015. Study designs were analyzed regarding the CPIP definitions applied, the use of validated instruments, the availability of a baseline score, and the existence of a minimal follow-up of 12 months. Results: Eighty eligible studies were included. In 48 studies, 22 different definitions of CPIP were identified, of which the definition provided by the International Association for the Study of Pain was applied most often. Of the studies included, 53 (66%) used 33 different validated instruments to quantify CPIP. There were 32 studies (40%) that assessed both pain intensity (PI) and quality of life (QOL) with validated tools, 41% and 4% had a validated assessment of only PI or QOL, respectively, and 15% lacked a validated assessment. The visual analog scale and the Short Form 36 (SF36) were most commonly used for measuring PI (73%) and QOL (19%). Assessment of CPIP was unclear in 15% of the studies included. A baseline score was assessed in 45% of the studies, and 75% had a follow-up of at least 12 months. Conclusion: The current literature addressing CPIP after inguinal hernia repair has a variable degree of quality and lacks uniformity in outcome measures. Proper comparison of the study results to provide conclusive recommendations for preventive measures against CPIP therefore remains difficult. These findings reaffirm the need for a uniform and validated assessment with uniform reporting of outcomes to improve the burden that CPIP poses to a significant surgical patient population.
review-article	ESR454919	Skin Wound Healing: An Update on the Current Knowledge and Concepts Skin Wound Healing: An Update on the Current Knowledge and Concepts Background: The integrity of healthy skin plays a crucial role in maintaining physiological homeostasis of the human body. The skin is the largest organ system of the body. As such, it plays pivotal roles in the protection against mechanical forces and infections, fluid imbalance, and thermal dysregulation. At the same time, it allows for flexibility to enable joint function in some areas of the body and more rigid fixation to hinder shifting of the palm or foot sole. Many instances lead to inadequate wound healing which necessitates medical intervention. Chronic conditions such as diabetes mellitus or peripheral vascular disease can lead to impaired wound healing. Acute trauma such as degloving or large-scale thermal injuries are followed by a loss of skin organ function rendering the organism vulnerable to infections, thermal dysregulation, and fluid loss. Methods: For this update article, we have reviewed the actual literature on skin wound healing purposes focusing on the main phases of wound healing, i.e., inflammation, proliferation, epithelialization, angiogenesis, remodeling, and scarring. Results: The reader will get briefed on new insights and up-to-date concepts in skin wound healing. The macrophage as a key player in the inflammatory phase will be highlighted. During the epithelialization process, we will present the different concepts of how the wound will get closed, e.g., leapfrogging, lamellipodial crawling, shuffling, and the stem cell niche. The neovascularization represents an essential component in wound healing due to its fundamental impact from the very beginning after skin injury until the end of the wound remodeling. Here, the distinct pattern of the neovascularization process and the special new functions of the pericyte will be underscored. At the end, this update will present 3 topics of high interest in skin wound healing issues, dealing with scarring, tissue engineering, and plasma application. Conclusion: Although wound healing mechanisms and specific cell functions in wound repair have been delineated in part, many underlying pathophysiological processes are still unknown. The purpose of the following update on skin wound healing is to focus on the different phases and to brief the reader on the current knowledge and new insights. Skin wound healing is a complex process, which is dependent on many cell types and mediators interacting in a highly sophisticated temporal sequence. Although some interactions during the healing process are crucial, redundancy is high and other cells or mediators can adopt functions or signaling without major complications.
research-article	ESR493923	"Isoform-Dependent Changes in Cytochrome P450-Mediated Drug Metabolism after Portal Vein Ligation in the Rat Isoform-Dependent Changes in Cytochrome P450-Mediated Drug Metabolism after Portal Vein Ligation in the Rat Background: Surgical removal of complicated liver tumors may be realized in two stages via selective portal vein ligation, inducing the atrophy of portally ligated lobes and the compensatory hypertrophy of nonligated liver lobes. Unlike morphological changes, functional aspects such as hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated drug metabolism remain vaguely understood, despite its critical role in both drug biotransformation and hepatic functional analysis. Our goal was the multilevel characterization of hepatic CYP-mediated drug metabolism after portal vein ligation in the rat. Methods: Male Wistar rats (n = 24, 210–230 g) were analyzed either untreated (controls; n = 4) or 24/48/72/168/336 h (n = 4 each) following portal vein ligation affecting approximately 80% of the liver parenchyma. Besides the weights of ligated and nonligated lobes, pentobarbital (30 mg/kg)-induced sleeping time, CYP1A(2), CYP 2B(1/2), CYP2C(6/11/13), CYP3A(1) enzyme activities, and corresponding isoform mRNA expressions, as well as CYP3A1 protein expression were determined by in vivo sleeping test, CYP isoform-selective assays, polymerase chain reaction, and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Results: Portal vein ligation triggered atrophy in ligated lobes and hypertrophy nonligated lobes. Sleeping time was transiently elevated (p = 0.0451). After an initial rise, CYP1A, CYP2B, and CYP3A enzyme activities dropped until 72 h, followed by a potent increase only in the nonligated lobes, paralleled by an early (24–48 h) transcriptional activation only in nonligated lobes. CYP2C enzyme activities and mRNA levels were bilaterally rapidly decreased, showing a late reconvergence only in nonligated lobes. CYP3A1 immunohistochemistry indicated substantial differences in positivity in the early period. Conclusions: Beyond the atrophy-hypertrophy complex, portal vein ligation generated a transient suppression of global and regional drug metabolism, re-established by an adaptive, CYP isoform-dependent transcriptional response of the nonligated lobes."
research-article	ESR494382	"Predictive Early Recurrence Factors of Preoperative Clinicophysiological Findings in Pancreatic Cancer Predictive Early Recurrence Factors of Preoperative Clinicophysiological Findings in Pancreatic Cancer Background: We aimed to evaluate the use of preoperative clinicophysiological parameters as predictive risk factors for early recurrence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) after curative resection. Methods: A total of 260 patients who underwent pancreatic resection for PDAC between 2007 and 2015 were examined retrospectively. We divided the patients into those with early recurrence (within 6 months; group A, n = 52) and those with relapse within ≥6 months or without recurrence (group B, n = 208). Data regarding clinicophysiological parameters were analyzed as predictors of disease-free survival (DFS). These factors were analyzed by χ2 tests on univariate analysis and Cox proportional hazard models on multivariate analyses. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were generated using log-rank tests. Results: Groups A and B had significantly different preoperative carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) levels, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels, and curability. Univariate and multivariate analysis showed that CA19-9 and CEA were independent prognostic factors for early recurrence. Patients with CA19-9 levels &"
systematic-review	ETJ356040	"Selenium Supplementation for Hashimoto's Thyroiditis: Summary of a Cochrane Systematic Review Selenium Supplementation for Hashimoto's Thyroiditis: Summary of a Cochrane Systematic Review Selenium supplementation in people with Hashimoto's thyroiditis might reduce antibody levels and result in a decreased dosage of levothyroxine (LT4) and may provide other beneficial effects (e.g. on mood and health-related quality of life). The aim of our systematic review was to assess the effects of selenium supplementation on Hashimoto's thyroiditis. We searched The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE and Web of Science for randomized controlled trials. Study selection, data extraction, assessment of risk of bias and analyses were carried out by two independent review authors. We assessed the quality of the evidence of included studies using GRADE. Four studies rated at unclear to high risk of bias comprising 463 participants were included. One study at high risk of bias showed statistically significant improvement in subjective well-being with sodium selenite 200 μg plus titrated LT4 compared with placebo plus titrated LT4 (RR 4.67, 95% CI 1.61-13.50). Selenomethionine 200 μg as a single treatment or combined with LT4 reduced the serum levels of anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies compared with placebo (or placebo plus LT4) in three studies (p &lt; 0.001). Although the changes from baseline were statistically significant in these three studies, their clinical relevance is unclear. In conclusion, the results of these four studies, assessed at unclear to high risk of bias, show that evidence to support or refute the efficacy of selenium supplementation in people with Hashimoto's thyroiditis is incomplete and not reliable to help inform clinical decision making."
research-article	ETJ371512	Differences in Physicians' and Patients' Perception of Acute Hypothyroid Symptoms Induced by Thyroid Hormone Withdrawal in Thyroid Cancer Patients: A Multicenter Survey in Korea Differences in Physicians' and Patients' Perception of Acute Hypothyroid Symptoms Induced by Thyroid Hormone Withdrawal in Thyroid Cancer Patients: A Multicenter Survey in Korea Background: Acute short-term hypothyroidism induced by thyroid hormone withdrawal (THW) for follow-up surveillance or therapeutic radioiodine causes patients with differentiated thyroid cancer to suffer from a myriad of deleterious symptoms. Objectives: To know how patient recognition of hypothyroid symptoms compares to physician perception of patient symptoms. Methods: The survey was performed in 10 referral hospitals throughout Korea from December 2010 to May 2011 and targeted patients with total thyroidectomy and remnant ablation. The survey consisted of questions regarding the effect of THW on patient symptoms, the duration of symptoms, impact on social life, and patient complaints. The physicians treating thyroid cancer patients also responded to the survey and provided their perceptions of patient symptoms and treatment decisions. Results: About 70% of the patients responded that they experienced a negative physical or psychological impact on their life and work due to hypothyroid symptoms. However, 76% of doctors thought hypothyroidism could negatively impact a patient's daily life but would be endurable. Two thirds of physicians do not routinely recommend recombinant human TSH (rhTSH) to their patients. Multivariate analysis showed patients with female sex, stronger educational background, emotionally negative experiences of hypothyroidism, and younger age were more willing to pay for therapy that could prevent hypothyroidism symptoms. Conclusions: There was a substantial gap in the perception of hypothyroid symptoms during THW between physicians and patients. Physicians who are aware of the seriousness of hypothyroidism in their patients were more likely to recommend the use of rhTSH for their patients.
research-article	ETJ371740	Rapid Bioassay for Detection of Thyroid-Stimulating Antibodies Using Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate-Gated Calcium Channel and Aequorin Rapid Bioassay for Detection of Thyroid-Stimulating Antibodies Using Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate-Gated Calcium Channel and Aequorin Background: Thyroid-stimulating antibodies (TSAb) are known to be responsible for hyperthyroidism in Graves' disease (GD). The conventional methods to measure TSAb depend on cell-based assays that require cumbersome procedures and a sterilized tissue culture technique. The aim of the present study was to develop a ready-to-use cell-based assay for measuring TSAb activity without requiring sterilized conditions. Methods: We developed a new assay kit using a frozen Chinese hamster ovary cell line expressing the thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-gated calcium channel and aequorin, tentatively named the aequorin TSAb assay. Activated stimulatory G-protein-coupled adenylate cyclase increases intracellular cAMP, which then binds to the cyclic nucleotide-gated calcium channel. Activation of this channel allows Ca2+ to enter the cell, and the influx of Ca2+ can be measured with aequorin, which is quantified by a luminometer. Results can be obtained in only 4 h without sterilized conditions. TSAb activities were expressed by international units using the NIBSC 08/204 standard. Results: Positive results of aequorin TSAb were obtained in 197 of 199 (98.9%) of untreated patients with GD. Only 1 of 42 (2.3%) patients with painless thyroiditis had a weakly positive aequorin TSAb. All 45 patients with subacute thyroiditis and 185 normal subjects showed negative aequorin TSAb. As for chronic thyroiditis, all 52 euthyroid patients showed negative aequorin TSAb, but 8 of 50 (16.0%) hypothyroid patients had a positive reaction. However, these positive reactions were not induced by serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and were thought to be induced by the stimulating activity of anti-TSH receptor immunoglobulins. Conventional porcine TSAb and Elecsys thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibodies were positive in 69.3 and 95.5% of GD, respectively. Conclusion: The aequorin TSAb assay was positive in 98.9% of GD and was more sensitive than the conventional assay. This assay can be conducted in only 4 h without sterilized conditions and is practically useful in general clinical laboratories.
case-report	ETJ448474	An Unusual Case of Malignant Struma Ovarii Causing Thyrotoxicosis An Unusual Case of Malignant Struma Ovarii Causing Thyrotoxicosis Background: Struma ovarii (SO) is a specialized monodermal teratoma predominantly composed of mature thyroid tissue, accounting for approximately 5% of all ovarian teratomas. Thyrotoxicosis is seen in about 8% of patients with SO. Most SO cases are benign with only 5-10% being malignant, and malignant SO causing thyrotoxicosis is very uncommon. Case: A 64-year-old woman had been diagnosed with thyrotoxicosis 2 years previously. The thyroid gland was palpable with a micronodular texture, and the patient was euthyroid under carbimazole. She presented with abdominal pain and progressive enlargement of the abdomen over a 2-month period. An abdominal ultrasonography revealed a pelvic mass and a large fluid collection. Additional imaging confirmed the presence of a complex right ovarian mass measuring 13 cm. The patient underwent a total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, omentectomy and appendectomy. The histological examination revealed the presence of ‘follicular thyroid-type carcinoma arising in an SO of the right ovary, with metastatic infiltration in the tissue fragments from the pouch of Douglas'. Antithyroid treatment was discontinued 1 month after surgery in light of the pathology result. During the 4-year follow-up, the patient remained euthyroid. Conclusion: There has been controversy about the management of malignant SO, which is a rare entity. Malignant SO causing thyrotoxicosis is even more uncommon. As clinical signs are nonspecific, other causes of thyrotoxicosis must be considered for a differential diagnosis. Our case is one of the very few cases ever reported.
case-report	ETJ448993	Van Wyk-Grumbach Syndrome with Kocher-Debré-Sémélaigne Syndrome: Case Report of a Rare Association Van Wyk-Grumbach Syndrome with Kocher-Debré-Sémélaigne Syndrome: Case Report of a Rare Association Background: Van Wyk-Grumbach syndrome (VWGS) is a rare presentation of juvenile hypothyroidism which manifests in females as chronic autoimmune hypothyroidism, isosexual pseudoprecocious puberty, and multicystic ovaries. It uniquely presents with short stature and delayed bone age unlike other causes of precocious puberty. Kocher-Debré-Sémélaigne (KDSS) is a rare presentation of juvenile hypothyroidism manifesting as calf muscle pseudohypertrophy, delayed contraction and relaxation of reflexes, and percussion myxedema. Objectives: To diagnose the rare association of VWGS and KDSS and to conduct a follow-up of the patient on replacement therapy. Methods: We present a case of a 9-year-old female child who presented to the endocrine department with complaints of intermittent vaginal bleeding, short stature, and difficulty in walking. On evaluation she was found to be having autoimmune hypothyroidism, FSH-dominated isosexual pseudoprecocious puberty, delayed bone age, secondary pituitary macroadenoma, delayed relaxation of deep tendon reflexes, and pseudohypertrophy of calf muscles. The diagnosis of VWGS associated with KDSS was made. The patient was initially put on 25 μg thyroxine replacement, which was titrated accordingly, and was followed up after 6 months and 1 year. Results: All the features of the syndrome improved after 12 months of adequate thyroxine replacement. Conclusions: VWGS and KDSS are rare presentations of juvenile hypothyroidism, and their association is even rarer. Early diagnosis and prompt replacement therapy can avoid unnecessary investigations and surgical interventions.
review-article	ETJ452623	"Immunoglobulin G4-Related Thyroid Diseases Immunoglobulin G4-Related Thyroid Diseases Immunoglobulin G4-related disease (IgG4-RD) is a new disease category involving many organ systems, including the endocrine system in general and the thyroid in particular. Since an initial association was made between hypothyroidism and autoimmune (IgG4-related) pancreatitis, more forms of IgG4-related thyroid disease (IgG4-RTD) have been recognized. Four subcategories of IgG4-RTD have so far been identified: Riedel thyroiditis (RT), fibrosing variant of Hashimoto thyroiditis (FVHT), IgG4-related Hashimoto thyroiditis, and Graves disease with elevated IgG4 levels. Although a male predominance is seen for IgG4-RD in general, RT and FVHT have a female preponderance. The pathogenesis of IgG4-RD is not completely understood; however, genetic factors, antigen-antibody reactions, and an allergic phenomenon have been described. Diagnosis of IgG4-RD requires a combination of clinical features, serological evidence, and histological features. Histology is the mainstay of diagnosis, with IgG4 immunostaining. Although serum IgG4 levels are usually elevated in IgG4-RD, raised serum IgG4 is neither necessary nor adequate for diagnosis. Imaging supports the diagnosis and is a useful tool in disease monitoring. Management of IgG4-RTD is both medical and surgical. Steroids are the first-line treatment and may produce a swift response. Tamoxifen and rituximab are second-line agents used in steroid-resistant patients. Surgical debulking is carried out in RT solely as a procedure to relieve obstruction. Other endocrine associations described with IgG4-RD are hypophysitis and Hashimoto encephalopathy. IgG4-RTD is an uncommon disease entity, and prompt diagnosis and treatment can improve outcomes."
meta-analysis	ETJ454920	Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Is Not Associated with Thyroid Hormone Levels and Hypothyroidism: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Is Not Associated with Thyroid Hormone Levels and Hypothyroidism: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Whether hypothyroidism is related to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is unclear. Thyroid dysfunction is closely related with components of metabolic syndrome. Given the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome, several studies have investigated the association between NAFLD and thyroid dysfunction and have demonstrated inconsistent results. Thus, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to better characterize the association between NAFLD and thyroid dysfunction. Methods: MEDLINE and Embase were searched through July 2016. The primary outcome was the association between NAFLD and subclinical, overt, and overall hypothyroidism. The secondary outcome was the difference in thyroid hormone levels (free triiodothyronine [FT3], free thyroxine [FT4], or thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH]) between NAFLD patients and non-NAFLD controls. Pooled odds ratios (OR) and 95% CI were calculated using a random-effects model. All continuous data are summarized as the mean difference along with 95% CI. Results: Data were extracted from 14 studies involving 7,191 NAFLD patients and 30,003 controls. NAFLD was not associated with subclinical, overt, or overall hypothyroidism compared with non-NAFLD controls. Patients who had NAFLD did not show a significant difference in FT3, FT4, or TSH compared with non-NAFLD controls. Conclusions: Our meta-analysis demonstrates no significant association between NAFLD and subclinical, overt, or overall hypothyroidism, and we also found no significant difference in thyroid hormone levels between participants with and without NAFLD.
case-report	ETJ479629	Occurrence of Graves’ Orbitopathy and Graves’ Hyperthyroidism after a Trauma to the Eye Occurrence of Graves’ Orbitopathy and Graves’ Hyperthyroidism after a Trauma to the Eye Background: Graves’ orbitopathy (GO) is believed to be the consequence of autoimmunity against antigens that are present both in the thyroid and orbital tissues. Massive release of thyroid antigens causes the appearance or deterioration of GO in patients with Graves’ hyperthyroidism (GH), as it occurs following radioiodine treatment. In theory, a similar release of autoantigens may occur at the eye level, for example due to an orbital trauma or surgical manipulation. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a case of de novo appearance of GO and then GH after an eye trauma, possibly reflecting spreading of autoantigens and activation of the immune system against shared orbital and thyroid antigens. Case Report: An otherwise healthy, 57-year-old man presented 6 months after the appearance of a monolateral right orbitopathy, which occurred 40 days after a trauma in the ipsilateral eye. His thyroid function was normal, with positive serum anti-TSH receptor autoantibodies. The thyroid was normal on ultrasound. A month later he developed hyperthyroidism and orbitopathy in the left eye. Discussion: The development of GO after an eye trauma may reflect tissue damage with release of autoantigens and consequent autoimmunity in a predisposed individual (our patient had a familial history of autoimmune thyroid disease). The subsequent development of hyperthyroidism is in keeping with the hypothesis that GH and GO are due to autoimmunity against antigens present both in the thyroid and in orbital tissues.
research-article	ETJ494834	Calcitonin Screening in Nodular Thyroid Disease: Is There a Definitive Answer? Calcitonin Screening in Nodular Thyroid Disease: Is There a Definitive Answer? Introduction: Calcitonin (Ctn) is a hormone secreted by thyroid “C” cells and is considered an excellent marker for medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). However, the use of Ctn to screen patients with nodular thyroid disease (NTD) remains controversial. Objective: The aim of this work was to define the frequency of hypercalcitoninemia among NTD patients followed at a tertiary referral hospital. Methods: A retrospective analysis was made of basal Ctn measurements and corresponding patients’ records between January 2011 and December 2015. Hypercalcitoninemia was defined as &
review-article	FDT304512	Twin Anemia-Polycythemia Sequence: Diagnostic Criteria, Classification, Perinatal Management and Outcome Twin Anemia-Polycythemia Sequence: Diagnostic Criteria, Classification, Perinatal Management and Outcome Monochorionic twins share a single placenta with intertwin vascular anastomoses, allowing the transfer of blood from one fetus to the other and vice versa. These anastomoses are the essential anatomical substrate for the development of several complications, including twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) and twin anemia-polycythemia sequence (TAPS). TTTS and TAPS are both chronic forms of fetofetal transfusion. TTTS is characterized by the twin oligopolyhydramnios sequence, whereas TAPS is characterized by large intertwin hemoglobin differences in the absence of amniotic fluid discordances. TAPS may occur spontaneously in up to 5% of monochorionic twins and may also develop after incomplete laser treatment in TTTS cases. This review focuses on the pathogenesis, incidence, diagnostic criteria, management options and outcome in TAPS. In addition, we propose a classification system for antenatal and postnatal TAPS.
systematic-review	FDT305096	Mirror Syndrome: A Systematic Review of Fetal Associated Conditions, Maternal Presentation and Perinatal Outcome Mirror Syndrome: A Systematic Review of Fetal Associated Conditions, Maternal Presentation and Perinatal Outcome Introduction: Mirror syndrome, also referred to as Ballantyne’s syndrome, is normally defined as the development of maternal edema in association with fetal hydrops. The incidence of mirror syndrome is low and few cases have been published. We describe a case report in association with fetal Ebstein anomaly and provide a systematic review on the fetal associated conditions, maternal presentation and perinatal outcome reported for mirror syndrome. Data Sources: A PubMed database search was done until December 2008 (English, French or German) without any restriction of publication date or journal, using the following key words: Ballantyne syndrome, Mirror syndrome, Triple edema, Pseudotoxemia, Maternal hydrops syndrome, Pregnancy toxemia, Acute second trimester gestosis, and Early onset preeclampsia. Reported cases were considered eligible when fetal associated conditions, maternal symptoms and fetal outcome were clearly described. Results: Among 151 publications a total of 56 reported cases satisfying all inclusion criteria were identified. Mirror syndrome was associated with rhesus isoimmunization (29%), twin-twin transfusion syndrome (18%), viral infection (16%) and fetal malformations, fetal or placental tumors (37.5%). Gestational age at diagnosis ranged from 22.5 to 27.8 weeks of gestation. Maternal key signs were edema (80–100%), hypertension (57–78%) and proteinuria (20–56%). The overall rate of intrauterine death was 56%. Severe maternal complications including pulmonary edema occurred in 21.4%. Maternal symptoms disappeared 4.8–13.5 days after delivery. Discussion: Mirror syndrome is associated with a substantial increase in fetal mortality and maternal morbidity.
systematic-review	FDT331165	"Preterm Prelabor Rupture of Membranes and Fetal Survival after Minimally Invasive Fetal Surgery: A Systematic Review of the Literature Preterm Prelabor Rupture of Membranes and Fetal Survival after Minimally Invasive Fetal Surgery: A Systematic Review of the Literature Objective: Iatrogenic preterm prelabor rupture of membranes (iPPROM; &lt;37 weeks of gestation) is a major complication of fetal surgery. Little information is available about risk factors and incidence. Methods: We systematically reviewed reported iPPROM rates, gestational age at delivery and fetal survival after representative minimally invasive antenatal procedures. Results: A total of 1,146, 36 and 194 cases with mean iPPROM rates of 27, 31 and 26% were included for placental laser in twin-twin transfusion syndrome, shunting in lower urinary tract obstruction and interventions for twin-reversed arterial perfusion, respectively. In the statistical analysis, the maximum diameter of the instrument predicted iPPROM rate and was significantly related to gestational age at birth as well as fetal survival. Information on duration of the respective procedures was scarce and did not allow for meaningful analysis. Conclusions: iPPROM occurs in about 30% of cases treated by minimally invasive fetal surgery. The maximum diameter of the instrument explains iPPROM rate, gestational age at birth and fetal survival. Great variations in the reporting of iPPROM make data analysis difficult."
systematic-review	FDT333060	Diagnostic Accuracy of Noninvasive Detection of Fetal Trisomy 21 in Maternal Blood: A Systematic Review Diagnostic Accuracy of Noninvasive Detection of Fetal Trisomy 21 in Maternal Blood: A Systematic Review Background: Both pregnant women and providers of obstetric care are aware of the rapid advances in noninvasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD) of fetal trisomies, and appear to look forward to its clinical introduction. Objectives: To review and critically assess the published literature on diagnostic accuracy of NIPD using cell-free fetal DNA or RNA in maternal blood to detect fetal trisomy 21. Method: An electronic search was performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane library (1997 to April 2011). Of a total of 201 citations, 9 studies were eligible for full-text analysis by 2 independent reviewers, using the QUADAS tool. Results: Two of the 9 analyzed studies complied with the criteria of the QUADAS tool. Combining the selected 2 studies, with a total of 681 pregnancies included, overall sensitivity was 125/125 (100%, 95% CI 97.5–100%) and specificity 552/556 (99.3%, 95% CI 98.7–99.3%). Conclusions: NIPD of fetal trisomy 21, using fetal nucleic acids in maternal plasma, appears to have a high diagnostic accuracy. Large-scale prospective studies are awaited before implementation in clinical practice.
systematic-review	FDT339150	"Fetal Presentation of Long QT Syndrome – Evaluation of Prenatal Risk Factors: A Systematic Review Fetal Presentation of Long QT Syndrome – Evaluation of Prenatal Risk Factors: A Systematic Review Objective: This systematic review evaluated the existence of risk factors for the fetal manifestation of long QT syndrome (LQTS). Methods: Prenatal cardiac findings suggestive of fetal LQTS were studied using 30 English literature reports extracted from the Pubmed database (1979 to December 2011) using the search terms ‘long QT syndrome’, ‘fetal arrhythmia’ and ‘congenital heart disease’. Results: LQTS accounted for 15–17% of fetal bradycardias &lt;110 bpm among fetuses with a normally structured heart. Of the patients with significant prenatal findings of LQTS, 17–35% exhibited a reduced baseline fetal heart rate (FHR) of 110–120 bpm on electronic cardiotocography. Other prenatal signs were sinus or intermittent bradycardia &lt;110 bpm arising from atrioventricular block, tachyarrhythmias, pleural effusion and hydrops. More than 30% of Japanese infants with LQTS born at or after the mid-1980s exhibited the above-mentioned in utero signs. Conclusions: Fetal factors including a slightly reduced baseline FHR of 110–120 bpm, bradycardia &lt;110 bpm, tachyarrhythmias or clinical signs of heart failure, such as pleural effusion and hydrops, were associated with a higher frequency of LQTS. The use of these signs may help to increase the perinatal diagnosis of LQTS."
research-article	FDT363651	Treatment of Primary Fetal Hydrothorax with OK-432 (Picibanil): Outcome in 14 Fetuses and a Review of the Literature Treatment of Primary Fetal Hydrothorax with OK-432 (Picibanil): Outcome in 14 Fetuses and a Review of the Literature Background: Primary fetal hydrothorax (PFHT) is an uncommon condition with an estimated prevalence of 1 in 10,000/15,000 pregnancies. Therapeutic interventions include thoracocentesis, thoraco-amniotic shunting (TAS), and pleurodesis using OK-432. Methods: A review of the literature was performed to identify all cases of PFHT treated with TAS and OK-432. All cases of PFHT referred to the Fetal Maternal Unit at Royal Prince Alfred Hospital between 2002 and 2012 were retrospectively reviewed. In the cohort of fetuses treated with OK-432, the main perinatal outcomes evaluated were termination of pregnancy, live birth, neonatal death, and fetal death in utero. Secondary outcomes included gestational age (GA) at diagnosis, GA at treatment, GA at resolution, birth weight, and GA at birth. The development of the children was screened using the Ages and Stages Questionnaires, Version 3 (ASQ-3, 2009). Results: Primary hydrothorax was diagnosed in 31 fetuses, of which 14 had treatment with OK-432. One pregnancy terminated after treatment with OK-432. Survival was 85% (11/13): 100% in fetuses treated with OK-432 without hydrops, and 78% in those treated with hydrops. This compares well to the cases of TAS in the literature with an average survival of 63%: 85% in fetuses without hydrops and 55% with hydrops. The mean GA at birth was 36+4 weeks and mean birth weight 3,007 g. Eight of the 9 children screened with ASQ-3 scored well within the normal range. Conclusion: OK-432 appears to be a valid treatment option in fetuses with PFHT, particularly in those diagnosed at early GAs.
research-article	FDT365919	"Pre-Operative Twin Anemia/Polycythemia in the Setting of Twin-Twin Transfusion Syndrome (TTTS) Pre-Operative Twin Anemia/Polycythemia in the Setting of Twin-Twin Transfusion Syndrome (TTTS) Introduction: Twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) and twin anemia-polycythemia sequence (TAPS) are classified as distinct clinical disorders associated with unbalanced blood flow through placental vascular communications. Typically, TAPS placentas demonstrate few &lt;1 mm arteriovenous (AV) communications, and at fetoscopy the twins are visibly pale and plethoric. Materials and Methods: In a cohort of TTTS patients who underwent laser surgery, those with preoperative findings suggestive of anemia/polycythemia (AP) were compared to those with TTTS alone. AP was defined as middle cerebral artery peak systolic velocity in one twin &gt;1.5 multiples of the median (MoM), and &lt;1.0 MoM in the other. Results: Of 369 TTTS patients, 9 (2.4%) met criteria for preoperative AP. The mean number (±SD) of AV communications in the TTTS + AP group was 5.6 ± 5.7, compared with 8.8 ± 4.8 in the TTTS-alone group (p = 0.013). Five TTTS + AP patients (56%) had a few thin AV communications (mean 2.8 ± 1.6); all 5 had visibly pale and plethoric twins. The remaining 4 (44%) had large or numerous anastomoses (mean 10.5 ± 6.8); none had fetal skin color discordance. Discussion: Preoperative AP affected 2% of TTTS patients. Of these, approximately half had placental and skin color findings typically reported with isolated TAPS."
research-article	FDT365920	Towards Detecting Open Spina Bifida in the First Trimester: The Examination of the Posterior Brain Towards Detecting Open Spina Bifida in the First Trimester: The Examination of the Posterior Brain Introduction: Our aim was to examine the value of indirect signs of open spina bifida in the mid-sagittal view of the posterior brain at the 11-13 weeks' ultrasound examination and to summarize the current evidence for the first-trimester diagnosis of spina bifida. Methods: This was a prospective study in routine obstetric population. The presence of four almost parallel lines (four-line view) in the posterior brain was recorded. Biparietal diameter (BPD), intracranial translucency (IT) and cisterna magna (CM) were measured. The ratio of IT to CM (R ratio) was calculated. Results: 2,491 pregnancies were examined prospectively. Updated reference ranges for IT and CM were constructed. There were 3 cases with open spina bifida, and the four-line view was abnormal in 2 of them. The abnormal fetuses had smaller BPD as well as pronounced reduction in the CM and increase in the R ratio. Discussion: Examination of the posterior brain was feasible in all fetuses in the setting of the routine 11-13 weeks' ultrasound examination. Indirect signs of spina bifida are visible in the mid-sagittal view of the posterior brain, and the assessment of these structures can be a reliable tool in the early identification of this abnormality.
research-article	FDT366060	"Influence of Sampling Site on Uterine Artery Doppler Indices at 11-13+6 Weeks Gestation Influence of Sampling Site on Uterine Artery Doppler Indices at 11-13+6 Weeks Gestation Introduction: Uterine artery pulsatility index (PI) is a key variable in the first trimester screening for pre-eclampsia. The aims of the study were to examine the effect of sampling the uterine arteries at a site distal to the level of the internal os, and to determine a lower limit of peak systolic velocity (PSV) to establish an auditable standard. Material and Methods: PI and PSV measurements were performed at 11-13+6 weeks' gestation at two sites: at the level of the internal os and 3 cm distal to the internal os. Comparative analyses utilised the Student's paired t-test. A 90% reference interval of transformed PSV measurements at the internal os was generated by polynomial regression. Results: There was a significant reduction in both the PI (14.9%) and the PSV (17.4%) when measured at the distal site compared to the level of the internal os (both p &lt; 0.001). The best estimated 5th centile for uterine artery PSV at 11-13+6 weeks was 60.9 cm/s. Conclusion: PI measurements performed distal to the internal os are significantly lower and will result in inaccurate pre-eclampsia risk assessment. PSV measurements below 60 cm/s are likely to indicate an incorrect sampling site. Development of auditable measurement standards is important to ensure accuracy of prospective pre-eclampsia screening."
research-article	FDT369553	"Characterization of Atypical Preeclampsia Characterization of Atypical Preeclampsia Objective: To characterize patients with atypical preeclampsia (PE), in relation to socio-demographic characteristics, clinical presentation, maternal complications and perinatal outcome. Materials and Methods: Between July 1, 2011 and November 30, 2013, a cohort was created of women attended at a Obstetric High-dependency Unit who met criteria for atypical PE: gestational hypertension with severe hypertension or symptoms or laboratory signs suggestive of microangiopathy/hemolysis; normotensive proteinuria with the presence of symptoms or laboratory signs suggestive of microangiopathy/hemolysis; presence of PE or eclampsia or HELLP syndrome appearing after 48 h postpartum, and, PE or eclampsia appearing before 20 weeks of pregnancy. Results: A total of 200 women fulfilling criteria for atypical PE, were included: 61.5% corresponded to non-proteinuric gestational hypertension, 35.5% to normotensive proteinuria and 3% to PE/eclampsia in late postpartum. Criteria for severe maternal morbidity were present in 12% of the cases and there were no maternal deaths. There were 6 perinatal deaths. Conclusion: Atypical preeclampsia is a type of preeclampsia not fully recognized that is associated with maternal and neonatal morbidity, mainly related to smallness-for-gestational-age and low birth weight. Vasospasm symptoms are a key element to detect this condition."
case-report	FDT434643	Mass Effect Alone May Not Explain Pulmonary Vascular Pathology in Severe Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia Mass Effect Alone May Not Explain Pulmonary Vascular Pathology in Severe Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) and congenital pulmonary airway malformation (CPAM) are diseases in which chest-occupying lesions can result in severe pulmonary hypoplasia. However, significant postnatal mortality due to pulmonary hypertension (PH) is more often seen in patients with CDH. We analyzed prenatal echocardiographic parameters of pulmonary vascular pathology in these groups to understand whether PH in patients with CDH is secondary to a mass effect or to underlying disease. We analyzed pre- and postnatal characteristics of 26 patients with severe CDH and 23 patients with severe CPAM from 2009 to 2012. Severe mediastinal compression, indicated by a low cardiothoracic ratio, was evident in both groups. However, fetuses with severe CDH had smaller pulmonary arteries bilaterally and higher pulsatility indices in the ipsilateral lung than those with severe CPAM. Prenatal modified McGoon indices were significantly lower in patients with CDH versus CPAM. Consistent with these prenatal measurements, postnatal PH was seen more frequently in patients with CDH compared to CPAM. Patients with severe CDH have prenatal evidence of pulmonary vascular remodeling compared to patients with severe CPAM. These results suggest a multifactorial origin for PH in CDH and support the idea of using prenatal medical therapies to promote vascular remodeling in these patients.
meta-analysis	FDT437053	Twenty-Five Years of Fetoscopic Laser Coagulation in Twin-Twin Transfusion Syndrome: A Systematic Review Twenty-Five Years of Fetoscopic Laser Coagulation in Twin-Twin Transfusion Syndrome: A Systematic Review Objective: The aim of this study was to assess the perinatal outcome of pregnancies with twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) treated with laser therapy over the past 25 years, and in relation to different techniques used in this time period. Methods: A systematic review of studies reporting on perinatal outcome according to the Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE) guidelines was conducted. The MEDLINE, Embase and Cochrane Library databases were systematically searched. Comparisons were made in respect to time period and laser technique and Quintero stages. Results: In total, 34 studies reporting on 3,868 monochorionic twin pregnancies were included. The mean survival of both twins increased from 35 to 65% (p = 0.012) and for at least one twin from 70 to 88% (p = 0.009) over the past 25 years. Mean gestational age at birth remained stable over the years at 32 weeks gestation. Also, we showed a significantly improved perinatal survival with the evolution of the laser technique from non-selective to selective, selective sequential and the Solomon technique (p = 0.010). Discussion: Since the introduction of laser therapy for TTTS more than two decades ago, perinatal survival improved significantly. Improved outcome is probably associated with several factors, including evolution of the laser technique, learning curve effect, better referral and improved early neonatal care.
case-report	FDT440699	Predicting Perinatal Outcome from Prenatal Ultrasound Characteristics in Pregnancies Complicated by Gastroschisis Predicting Perinatal Outcome from Prenatal Ultrasound Characteristics in Pregnancies Complicated by Gastroschisis Introduction: The objective of the study was to establish the predictive value of prenatal ultrasound markers for complex gastroschisis (GS) in the first 10 days of life. Material and Methods: In this retrospective cohort study over 11 years (2000-2011) of 117 GS cases, the following prenatal ultrasound signs were analyzed at the last second- and third-trimester ultrasounds: intrauterine growth restriction, intra-abdominal bowel dilatation (IABD) adjusted for gestational age, extra-abdominal bowel dilatation (EABD) ≥25 mm, stomach dilatation, stomach herniation, perturbed mesenteric circulation, absence of bowel lumen and echogenic dilated bowel loops (EDBL). Results: Among 114 live births, 16 newborns had complex GS (14.0%). Death was seen in 16 cases (13.7%): 3 intrauterine fetal deaths, 9 complex GS and 4 simple GS. Second-trimester markers had limited predictive value. Third-trimester IABD, EABD, EDBL, absence of intestinal lumen and perturbed mesenteric circulation were statistically associated with complex GS and death. IABD was able to predict complex GS with a sensitivity of 50%, a specificity of 91%, a positive predictive value of 47% and a negative predictive value of 92%. Discussion: Third-trimester IABD adjusted for gestational age appears to be the prenatal ultrasound marker most strongly associated with adverse outcome in GS.
case-report	FDT442050	Megacystis Microcolon Intestinal Hypoperistalsis Syndrome: Case Reports and Discussion of the Literature Megacystis Microcolon Intestinal Hypoperistalsis Syndrome: Case Reports and Discussion of the Literature Megacystis microcolon intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome (MMIHS) is a rare intestinal dysmotility condition that also involves a dilated urinary bladder. It was believed to be an autosomal recessive condition, but genetic studies have suggested possibly an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. Prenatal diagnosis can be challenging, but MRI and amniotic fluid/digestive fluid studies may be complementary investigations to improve diagnostic accuracy. Prognosis of MMIHS is generally poor and treatment is mostly supportive. To date, bowel transplantation remains the only viable treatment to restore bowel motility. Here we present two additional cases to contribute towards the scant literature on this condition.
research-article	FDT442931	Validation of an Enhanced Version of a Single-Nucleotide Polymorphism-Based Noninvasive Prenatal Test for Detection of Fetal Aneuploidies Validation of an Enhanced Version of a Single-Nucleotide Polymorphism-Based Noninvasive Prenatal Test for Detection of Fetal Aneuploidies Objective: To validate an updated version (Version 2) of a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based noninvasive prenatal test (NIPT) and to determine the likelihood of success when testing for fetal aneuploidies following a redraw. Methods: Version 2 was analytically validated using 587 plasma samples with known genotype (184 trisomy 21, 37 trisomy 18, 15 trisomy 13, 9 monosomy X, 4 triploidy and 338 euploid). Sensitivity, specificity and no-call rate were calculated, and a fetal-fraction adjustment was applied to enable projection of these values in a commercial distribution. Likelihood of success of a second blood draw was computed based on fetal fraction and maternal weight from the first draw. Results: Validation of this methodology yielded high sensitivities (≥99.4%) and specificities (100%) for all conditions tested with an observed no-call rate of 2.3%. The no-call threshold for sample calling was reduced to 2.8% fetal fraction. The redraw success rate was driven by higher initial fetal fractions and lower maternal weights, with the fetal fraction being the more significant variable. Conclusions: The enhanced version of this SNP-based NIPT method showed a reduced no-call rate and a reduced fetal-fraction threshold for sample calling in comparison to the earlier version, while maintaining high sensitivity and specificity.
systematic-review	FDT443498	"Fetoscopic versus Open Repair for Spina Bifida Aperta: A Systematic Review of Outcomes Fetoscopic versus Open Repair for Spina Bifida Aperta: A Systematic Review of Outcomes Objective: To compare outcomes of fetoscopic spina bifida aperta repair (FSBAR) with the results of the open approach (OSBAR) as in the Management Of Myelomeningocele Study (MOMS). Methods: This was a systematic comparison of reports on FSBAR with data from the MOMS (n = 78). Inclusion criteria were studies of spina bifida aperta patients who underwent FSBAR and were followed for ≥12 months. Primary outcome was perinatal mortality. Secondary outcomes included operative, maternal, fetal, neonatal and infant outcomes. Results: Out of 16 reports, we included 5 from 2 centers. Due to bias and heterogeneity, analysis was restricted to two overlapping case series (n = 51 and 71). In those, FSBAR was technically different from OSBAR, had comparable perinatal mortality (7.8 vs. 2.6%, p = 0.212) and shunt rate at 12 months (45 vs. 40%, p = 0.619), longer operation time (223 vs. 105 min, p &lt; 0.001), higher preterm prelabor membrane rupture rate (84 vs. 46%, p &lt; 0.001), earlier gestational age at birth (32.9 vs. 34.1 weeks, p = 0.03), higher postnatal reoperation rate (28 vs. 2.56%, p &lt; 0.001) and absence of uterine thinning or dehiscence (0 vs. 36%, p &lt; 0.001). Functional outcomes were not available. Conclusion: FSBAR utilizes a different neurosurgical technique, takes longer to complete, induces more prematurity, requires additional postnatal procedures, yet has a comparable shunt rate and is not associated with uterine thinning or dehiscence. Long-term functional data are awaited."
meta-analysis	FDT445718	"Outcome of Fetuses with Supratentorial Extra-Axial Intracranial Cysts: A Systematic Review Outcome of Fetuses with Supratentorial Extra-Axial Intracranial Cysts: A Systematic Review Objective: To investigate the incidence of associated anomalies, aneuploidy, cyst progression, need for surgery and neurodevelopmental outcome in fetuses with extra-axial supratentorial intracranial cysts. Data Sources: Medline, Embase and CINAHL databases were searched and the following outcomes analyzed: associated central nervous system (CNS) and extra-CNS anomalies detected at the scan, chromosomal anomalies, additional CNS anomalies detected only at prenatal MRI, additional CNS anomalies detected only after birth, cyst progression in utero, neurological outcome and need for surgery. Two authors reviewed all abstracts independently. Results were reported as proportions, and between-study heterogeneity was explored using the I² statistic; fixed or random effect models were used accordingly. Results: Ten studies involving 47 fetuses were included in the meta-analysis. Arachnoid cysts (n = 24) had associated CNS anomalies and extra-CNS in 73% (95% CI 56-88) and 14% (95% CI 4-29), respectively. The most common associated anomalies were ventriculomegaly and callosal abnormalities. Chromosomal abnormalities were present in 6% (95% CI 0-30), but fetuses with isolated cysts were always euploid (0/7; 95% CI 0-29). Fetal MRI and postnatal examination identified 5 additional cases (21%, 95% CI 1-57). Cavum veli interpositi (CVI) cysts had associated CNS and extra-CNS anomalies in 31% (95% CI 13-52) and 6% (95% CI 0-29), respectively. No chromosomal or callosal anomalies were found in these cases. In isolated CVI cysts, no cases of associated anomalies were detected postnatally. Intrauterine regression occurred in 23% of CVI cysts and in none of the arachnoid cysts. In children with arachnoid cyst, the occurrence of hydrocephaly and mass effect on the adjacent structures were observed in 23.9% (95% CI 8.3-4.4) and 26.8% (95% CI 4.0-60.1), respectively. None of the cases included had abnormal motor outcome or intelligence. The rate of surgery was 34.7% (95% CI 16.0-56.4). None of the children with a prenatal diagnosis of isolated CVI cyst experienced any of the adverse outcomes explored in this review. Conclusions: Extra-axial supratentorial cysts diagnosed in utero are frequently associated with other neural and extra-neural anomalies. However, this may represent the consequence of a selection bias. Interhemispheric arachnoid cysts were typically associated with callosal anomalies. Abnormal karyotypes were seen only in fetuses with multiple anomalies. Arachnoid, but not CVI, cysts frequently increased in size throughout gestation."
meta-analysis	FDT445948	"Isolated Oligohydramnios at Term as an Indication for Labor Induction: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Isolated Oligohydramnios at Term as an Indication for Labor Induction: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: To investigate whether isolated oligohydramnios at term is associated with increased rates of perinatal morbidity and mortality and whether induction of labor in term pregnancies with isolated oligohydramnios is superior to conservative management in reducing perinatal morbidity and mortality. Study Design: We searched databases from inception to May 2015. We included studies that evaluated isolated oligohydramnios at term and perinatal outcome. Each outcome was analyzed separately, performing a comparative analysis between the study and control groups. Results: Twelve studies were included with 35,999 women: 2,414 (6.7%) with isolated oligohydramnios and 33,585 (93.29%) with normal amniotic fluid index. Patients with isolated oligohydramnios had significantly higher rates of labor induction [odds ratio (OR) 7.56, confidence interval (CI) 4.58-12.48] and Cesarean sections (OR 2.07, CI 1.77-2.41). There were higher rates of an Apgar score &lt;7 at 1 and 5 min (OR 1.53, CI 1.03-2.26, and OR 2.01, CI 1.3-3.09, respectively) and admission to the neonatal intensive care unit (OR 1.47, CI 1.17-1.84). There were no significant differences in cord pH &lt;7.1 and meconium-stained amniotic fluid. In the single randomized trial comparing induction of labor with expectant management, no differences were found in any significant maternal or neonatal outcomes. Conclusion: Isolated oligohydramnios at term is associated with significantly higher rates of labor induction, Cesarean sections, and short-term neonatal morbidity."
systematic-review	FDT446109	Diagnosis of Severe Fetomaternal Hemorrhage with Fetal Cerebral Doppler: Case Series and Systematic Review Diagnosis of Severe Fetomaternal Hemorrhage with Fetal Cerebral Doppler: Case Series and Systematic Review Objectives: To analyze the role of middle cerebral artery (MCA) peak systolic velocity (PSV) in the prediction of severe fetomaternal hemorrhage (FMH) and to compare it with standard biophysical assessment. Data Sources: Retrospective review of cases of FMH seen in our unit and systematic review of the literature. Results: We followed the MOOSE guidelines to review the literature. From 838 articles, 16 were selected. In total, 35 women, including 3 cases from our center and 32 obtained from the literature search were included. Diagnosis of FMH was always confirmed by laboratory tests. Patients were seen at 31 ± 5 weeks' gestation (range 16-39) and the most frequent indication for referral was decreased perception of fetal movements. Cardiotocography (CTG) upon admission was sinusoidal in 18 cases, nonreactive in 6, decelerative in 2 and tachycardic in one. MCA-PSV was abnormal in all cases but one. There were 2 perinatal deaths. The mean hemoglobin concentration at birth or at intrauterine transfusion was 4.8 ± 1.9 g/dl. Discussion: The most accurate predictor of FMH was fetal MCA-PSV. CTG was always abnormal but the pattern was frequently nonspecific. We suggest including fetal cerebral Doppler in the evaluation of patients with decreased fetal movements, particularly in those cases with ambiguous results of biophysical testing.
systematic-review	FDT453062	"Sildenafil in Pregnancy: A Systematic Review of Maternal Tolerance and Obstetric and Perinatal Outcomes Sildenafil in Pregnancy: A Systematic Review of Maternal Tolerance and Obstetric and Perinatal Outcomes Introduction: This systematic review evaluates maternal tolerance and obstetric and perinatal outcomes following sildenafil citrate (SC) use in human pregnancy. Data Sources: Scopus, PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, Embase, and Google Scholar were searched. Relevant full-text studies including case series and reports in English were included. Publications were excluded if the pregnancy was terminated or if SC was used only at conception. Results: Sixteen studies were included (n = 165). Indications for use and outcomes were variably reported. Maternal outcomes reported were headache (45.8%, 49/107), visual disturbances (17.3%, 14/81), dyspepsia/epigastric pain (15.8%, 15/95), and hypotension (0%, 0/39). There were more caesarean (83.3%, 55/66) than vaginal deliveries (16.7%, 11/66) and postpartum haemorrhage occurred in 3.9% (3/76) of women exposed to SC. Neonatal outcomes including nursery admission (67.3%, 35/52), Apgar scores &lt;7 at 5 min (7.1%, 4/56), and cord arterial pH &lt;7.1 (0%, 0/17) were reported. Stillbirths (4.3%, 3/69) and neonatal deaths (3.9%, 5/129) were comparable to SC-naïve groups. There were no congenital malformations (0%, 0/35). Conclusions: Despite limited data, overall there does not appear to be any severe adverse maternal side effects nor any increase in the rate of stillbirths, neonatal deaths, or congenital anomalies attributed to SC."
meta-analysis	FDT455947	"Fetal Tricuspid Regurgitation in the First Trimester as a Screening Marker for Congenital Heart Defects: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Fetal Tricuspid Regurgitation in the First Trimester as a Screening Marker for Congenital Heart Defects: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Assessment of tricuspid flow has been reported to improve the performance of screening for aneuploidies and congenital heart defects (CHD). However, the performance of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) as a screening marker for CHD in euploid fetuses is yet to be established. The main aim of this meta-analysis was to establish the predictive accuracy of TR for CHD. Methods: MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Library were searched electronically utilizing combinations of the relevant medical subject heading for “fetus,” “tricuspid regurgitation,” and “first trimester.” The outcomes explored were prevalence of TR in an euploid population, strength of association between TR and CHD, and predictive accuracy of TR for CHD in euploid fetuses. Summary estimates of sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratios, and diagnostic odds ratio for the overall predictive accuracy of TR for the detection of CHD were computed using the hierarchical summary receiver-operating characteristics model. Results: A total of 452 articles were identified; 60 were assessed with respect to their eligibility for inclusion and a total of 4 studies were included in the study. TR was associated with an increased risk of CHD (RR: 9.6, 95% CI 2.8-33.5; I2: 92.7%). The strength of association between TR and CHD persisted when considering fetuses at risk for CHD, such as those with increased nuchal translucency (RR: 7.2, 95% CI 5.2-9.8; I2: 0%), while TR did not show any association with CHD when detected in a population at low risk for cardiac defects (RR: 9.3, 95% CI 0.8-111.8; I2: 93%). The overall diagnostic performance of TR in detecting CHD was poor in detecting CHD (sROC: 0.684, SE: 0.61) with a sensitivity of 35.2% (95% CI 26.9-44.1) and a specificity of 98.6% (95% CI 98.5-98.7). Detection of TR at the 11-14 weeks' scan showed a positive likelihood ratio of 7.2 (95% CI 5.3-9.8) in detecting CHD when applied to a population at risk for CHD such as fetuses with an increased nuchal translucency. Conclusion: The detection of TR in the first trimester increases the risk of CHD. However, isolated TR in the first trimester does not seem to be a strong predictor for CHD."
systematic-review	FDT464286	Re-Thinking Elective Single Embryo Transfer: Increased Risk of Monochorionic Twinning - A Systematic Review Re-Thinking Elective Single Embryo Transfer: Increased Risk of Monochorionic Twinning - A Systematic Review Background/Objectives: Multiple pregnancies have tripled in the United States over the past 3 decades. Attributed to increasing maternal age at delivery but more so assisted reproductive technological advances, an effort has been made to decrease twinning through elective single embryo transfer. We sought to review and evaluate risks of monochorionic twinning as a predictable consequence of increasing utilization of elective single embryo transfer on perinatal outcomes. Primary outcomes included twinning rates, fetal anomalies, growth, preterm birth, and mortality. Secondary outcomes included neurological and pulmonary disability, intrauterine growth restriction, and congenital cardiac anomalies and twin-twin transfusion syndrome. Data sources: PubMed and Embase. Results: A total of 106 studies identified by systematic search met the inclusion criteria. The trend for lower numbers of embryos transferred has inadvertently led to an increase in monochorionic twinning. This is associated with worse outcomes compared to dichorionic twinning and singleton gestations for all outcomes studied. Discussion: Of great concern for monochorionic twins is the risk profile of significant morbidity and mortality. Transfer of 2 embryos should be considered to avoid higher risks inherent to the shared placental phenomena related to monochorionic twins.
meta-analysis	FDT479505	"Fetal Surgery for Myelomeningocele: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Outcomes in Fetoscopic versus Open Repair Fetal Surgery for Myelomeningocele: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Outcomes in Fetoscopic versus Open Repair Background/Objectives: The Management of Myelomeningocele (MMC) Study (MOMS) showed that prenatal repair of MMC resulted in improved neurological outcomes but was associated with high rates of obstetrical complications. This study compares outcomes of open and fetoscopic MMC repair. Data Sources: PubMed and Embase studies reporting outcomes of fetal MMC repair published since the completion of the MOMS. Results: We analyzed 11 studies and found no difference in mortality or the rate of shunt placement for hydrocephalus. Percutaneous fetoscopic repair was associated with higher rates of premature rupture of membranes (91 vs. 36%, p &lt; 0.01) and preterm birth (96 vs. 81%, p = 0.04) compared to open repair, whereas fetoscopic repair via maternal laparotomy reduced preterm birth. The rate of dehiscence and leakage from the MMC repair site was higher after both types of fetoscopic surgery (30 vs. 7%, p &lt; 0.01), while the rate of uterine dehiscence was higher after open repair (11 vs. 0%, p &lt; 0.01). Discussion: Fetoscopic repair is a promising alternative to open fetal MMC repair with a lower risk of uterine dehiscence; however, fetoscopic techniques should be optimized to overcome the high rate of dehiscence and leakage at the MMC repair site. A fetoscopic approach via maternal laparotomy reduces the risk of preterm birth."
meta-analysis	FDT479506	Chromosomal Microarray Analysis in Fetuses with Growth Restriction and Normal Karyotype: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Chromosomal Microarray Analysis in Fetuses with Growth Restriction and Normal Karyotype: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: To perform a systematic review of the literature and a meta-analysis to estimate the incremental yield of chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) over karyotyping in fetal growth restriction (FGR). Methods: This was a systematic review conducted in accordance with the PRISMA criteria. All articles identified in PubMed, Ovid Medline, and ISI Web of Knowledge (Web of Science) from January 2009 to November 2016 describing pathogenic copy number variants (CNVs) in fetuses with growth restriction were included. Case reports were excluded. Risk differences were pooled to estimate the overall and stratified CMA incremental yield. Results: Ten studies with full data available met the inclusion criteria for analysis. Combined data from these studies revealed a 4% (95% confidence interval [CI] 1-6%) incremental yield of CMA over karyotyping in nonmalformed growth-restricted fetuses, and a 10% (95% CI 6-14%) incremental yield in FGR when associated with fetal malformations. The most frequently found pathogenic CNVs were 22q11.2 duplication, Xp22.3 deletion, and 7q11.23 deletion (Williams-Beuren syndrome), particularly in isolated FGR. Conclusion: The use of genomic CMA provides a 4% incremental yield of detecting pathogenic CNVs in fetuses with isolated growth restriction and normal karyotype.
review-article	FOK288702	Immunomodulatory Effects of Viscum album Extracts on Natural Killer Cells: Review of Clinical Trials Immunomodulatory Effects of Viscum album Extracts on Natural Killer Cells: Review of Clinical Trials Extracts produced from Viscum album L. (mistletoe) are widely used in complementary medicine for the treatment of cancer. In many preclinical and clinical studies, Viscum album extracts were shown to exert immunomodulatory functions. Natural killer (NK) cells play an important role in cell-mediated immune responses against tumor cells. This article reviews clinical trials that address the influence of the mistletoe extract Iscador&
systematic-review	FOK328457	"Topical Herbal Medicine for Treatment of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Topical Herbal Medicine for Treatment of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: Topical Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) is generally used in China, separately or in combination with conventional medicine, to treat diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN). Clinical studies have shown beneficial effects of CHM compared with conventional medicine. Materials and Methods: A systematic literature search of Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, AMED, Chinese BioMedical Literature Database (CBM), Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) and Chinese Scientific Journal Database (VIP) information was conducted till March 2010. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were included if they compared topical CHM to conventional medicine, placebo or no treatment for patients with DPN. Revman 5.0.17 was used as software for data analysis. The effect expectancy is depicted as relative risk and mean difference with a 95% confidence interval. Results: 23 RCTs including 22 topical CHMs were included. The methodological quality of the included trials is generally poor in terms of sequence generation, concealment of allocations, blinding, incomplete data outcome and selective outcome reports. 17 trials showed beneficial effects of CHM on global symptom improvement, 6 beneficial effects of CHM on nerve velocity conduction, 4 beneficial effects of CHM on numbness improvement and 4 beneficial effects of CHM on pain relief. Adverse events with relation to CHM were reported in 3 trials including skin redness, a burning feeling, a prickling sensation and rash. Conclusions: Due to weak evidence, the claimed benefits of topical CHM for DPN are inconclusive; more stringent studies are needed to support clinical practice."
systematic-review	FOK334712	Systematic Review on Phytotherapy in Neonatology Systematic Review on Phytotherapy in Neonatology Background: There is an enormous economical significance of phytotherapy at least in Germany, the huge demand of patients was repeatedly proven. Simultaneously data exist for different application areas and ages as for younger children and pregnancy until birth. The actual neonatal period can be of interest because phytotherapy is used in younger children and until birth, it is not very likely that there is a gap in this period of life. Aim: To give an overview on the current literature on phytotherapy in neonatology. Methods: A systematic review was performed in the following databases: Cochrane, EM-BASE Alert, AMED, NCCAM, NLM, DIMDI, CAMbase, BIOSIS Previews, DAHTA, SciSearch, and Medline as well as in the archives of GMS, Karger, Kluwer, Thieme, Krause and Pachernegg, Wiley-Interscience/Phytotherapy Research, Springer and Merkurstab publishers. Keywords were neonatology, newborn, preterm, phytotherapy, phytomedicine, and herbal drugs in clinical randomized controlled studies. Results: We found 14 articles that fulfilled the inclusion criteria: 10 case control studies, 1 observational study, 1 study with interview, 1 with a questionnaire, and 1 retrospective study. Topics were aromatherapy, external applications, and internal effects of herbal teas. Conclusion: Indications, study design and explantory power of these publications were quite heterogeneous. Most promising was the study situation in aromatherapy. Due to the fact that phytotherapy is frequently used and there is a high demand of parents, methodologically excellent studies are needed to evaluate the significance of phytotherapy in the neonatal period. The aim is to fulfill scientific as well as economical needs. This review shows that there is no such evidence yet.
systematic-review	FOK343126	Key Issues in Clinical and Epidemiological Research in Complementary and Alternative Medicine – a Systematic Literature Review Key Issues in Clinical and Epidemiological Research in Complementary and Alternative Medicine – a Systematic Literature Review Background: In the last 2 decades there has been a large increase in publications on complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). However, CAM research methodology was heterogeneous and often of low quality. The aim of this systematic review was to investigate scientific publications with regards to general issues, concepts and strategies. We also looked at research priorities and methods employed to evaluate the clinical and epidemiological research of CAM in the past to identify the basis for consensus-based research strategies. Methods: We performed a systematic literature search for papers published between 1990 and 2010 in 7 electronic databases (Medline, Web of Science, PsychArticles, PsycInfo, CINAHL, EMBASE and Cochrane Library) on December 16 and 17, 2010. In addition, experts were asked to nominate relevant papers. Inclusion criteria were publications dealing with research methodology, priorities or complexities in the scientific evaluation of CAM. All references were assessed in a multistage process to identify relevant papers. Results: From the 3,279 references derived from the search and 98 references contributed by CAM experts, 170 papers fulfilled the criteria and were included in the analysis. The following key issues were identified: difficulties in past CAM research (e.g., randomisation, blinding), utility of quantitative and qualitative research methods in CAM, priority setting in CAM research and specific issues regarding various CAM modalities. Conclusions: Most authors vote for the use of commonly accepted research methods to evaluate CAM. There was broad consensus that a mixed methods approach is the most suitable for gathering conclusive knowledge about CAM.
systematic-review	FOK356230	"Use of Placebos and Nonspecific and Complementary Treatments by German Physicians - Rationale and Development of a Questionnaire for a Nationwide Survey Use of Placebos and Nonspecific and Complementary Treatments by German Physicians - Rationale and Development of a Questionnaire for a Nationwide Survey Background: We are performing a nationwide survey in a random sample of German general practitioners (GPs), orthopedists, and internists on the use of placebos and nonspecific as well as complementary treatments and their association with basic professional attitudes. In this article we explain the theoretical considerations behind the study approach and the development of the questionnaire. Methods: Based on a systematic review of published surveys, own surveys on the topic, and on theoretical considerations we developed a preliminary version of a 4-page questionnaire that was tested for feasibility in a convenience sample of 80 participants of a general medical education event. We also performed cognitive interviews with 8 physicians to investigate whether the questions were understood adequately. Results: The questions on typical placebos and complementary treatments were well understood and easy to answer for participants. Discussions about the phrasing of questions on nonspecific treatments during interview reflected the vagueness of this concept; but this did not seem to create major problems when answering the related questions. The original questions regarding basic professional attitudes partly were not understood in the manner intended. The relevant questions were modified but the interviews suggest that these issues are difficult to grasp in a quantitative survey. Conclusion: Our testing procedures suggest that our questionnaire is well-suited to investigate our questions with some limitations regarding the issue of basic professional attitudes."
systematic-review	FOK370216	Treatment of Organic Livestock with Medicinal Plants: A Systematic Review of European Ethnoveterinary Research Treatment of Organic Livestock with Medicinal Plants: A Systematic Review of European Ethnoveterinary Research Background: The EC Regulation for Organic Farming states that organic livestock should be treated preferably with phytotherapeutic products. In spite of the high importance of organic livestock in Europe, primarily ruminants, today almost no phytotherapeutic product is registered for livestock. Also, information regarding veterinary phytotherapy is rare. The aim of this paper is to find approaches to cope with health problems of organic ruminants in Europe on the basis of findings from the European ethnoveterinary medicine (EuEVM). Methods: A systematic review of ethno-biomedicinal papers was conducted with the aid of the Scopus database, and 75 papers, from European countries were analyzed regarding ethnoveterinary information. Results: A total of 590 plant species referring to 102 different plant families are reported to be used for animal treatment, with Asteraceae, Fabaceae and Lamiaceae being the most important families. The traditional use of some plant species (e.g. mallow, chamomile, wormwood) corresponds with findings from recent scientific literature. The large number of less studied plant species, such as white lupin as an antiparasitic herb, and Helleborus spp. as potential immunostimulatory agent, opens an interesting field for future research. Conclusions: In general, EuEVM provides interesting treatment approaches for gastrointestinal and dermatological disorders as well as parasitosis. Findings regarding disorders of female genital or respiratory tract are less consistent. Nevertheless, EuEVM offers a solid basis for stimulating research in veterinary phytotherapy in Europe with a perspective to solve animal health problems in organic or even nonorganic ruminant production.
research-article	FOK376555	Mind the Gap! Lay and Medical Perceptions of Risks Associated with the Use of Alternative Treatment and Conventional Medicine Mind the Gap! Lay and Medical Perceptions of Risks Associated with the Use of Alternative Treatment and Conventional Medicine Background: Studies on the widespread use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) demonstrate that CAM users base their treatment decisions on both subjective, experience-based knowledge and medical knowledge. The aim of this study was to explore lay and medical risk perceptions associated with CAM and conventional medicine. Patients and Methods: In this explorative qualitative study, we conducted in-depth interviews with 25 Norwegian CAM users with cancer or multiple sclerosis and 12 doctors. Results: The interviews revealed fundamental differences in risk perceptions influencing treatment decisions and risk communication in a clinical setting. While CAM users considered conventional medicine as potentially risky and related this to experiences of severe adverse effects, CAM was perceived as natural and safe. Doctors' risk perceptions were quite the contrary, mainly because of lack of scientific evidence for CAM as a safe and beneficial treatment option. Conclusion: For the safety of CAM users, such divergent risk perceptions may have far-reaching consequences. CAM users should be taken seriously with their self-perception as decision-makers considering their approaches to experiences, knowledge, and science. An awareness of differing lay and medical risk perceptions associated with CAM and conventional medicine in research, doctor-patient communication, and education of patients and doctors is thus important to optimize patient safety in complex health care systems.
research-article	FOK380989	Effects of Bergamot (Citrus bergamia (Risso) Wright &
meta-analysis	FOK381225	Acupuncture Therapies for Psoriasis Vulgaris: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Acupuncture Therapies for Psoriasis Vulgaris: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials The purpose of this review was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture therapies in the treatment of psoriasis vulgaris. Embase, CENTRAL, PubMed, AMED, CINAHL, CNKI, CQVIP, CBM, and Wanfang databases were searched from inceptions to May 2013 for prospective randomized controlled trials evaluating acupuncture therapies for psoriasis vulgaris. No language limitations were applied. Studies were assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. The primary outcome was Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI) score. Six studies (involving 522 participants) met the eligibility criteria for this review, and 5 were included in quantitative analysis. Due to the diversity of interventions, comparators and reported outcomes, meta-analysis was not possible. Results from single studies produced conflicting results for the outcomes PASI reduction, lesion reduction (non-PASI), PASI score, and relapse rate. There is some evidence of benefit of acupuncture therapies for the treatment of psoriasis vulgaris. However, the conclusions are limited by the small number of included trials and conflicting results from single studies. More research is needed to clarify the effect of acupuncture therapies for psoriasis vulgaris.
meta-analysis	FOK442111	"Herbal Medicine for Cough: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Herbal Medicine for Cough: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The aim of this review was to systematically assess the literature on herbal medicine for cough as a symptom of upper respiratory tract infections and common cold. Methods: The Cochrane Library, Scopus, MEDLINE/PubMed, and Embase were searched through March 2012 for RCTs testing the effects of herbal medicine for cough. Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane tool. Results: 34 RCTs (N = 7,083) on Pelargonium sidoides (11 RCTs), Echinacea (8 RCTs), Andrographis paniculata (6 RCTs), ivy/primrose/thyme (4 RCTs), essential oils (4 RCTs) and bakumondoto (1 RCT) were included. Controls were mainly placebo. Most studies had a low risk of bias. The meta-analysis revealed strong evidence for A. paniculata (SMD = -1.00, 95% CI = -1.85, -0.15; P&lt;0.001) and ivy/primrose/thyme (RR = 1.40, 95% CI = 1.23, 1.60; P&lt;0.001) in treating cough; moderate evidence for P. sidiodes (RR = 4.60; 95% CI = 2.89,7.31; P&lt;0.001), and limited evidence for Echinacea (SMD = -0.68; 95% CI = -1.32, -0.04; P = 0.04). Conclusion: This review found strong evidence for A. paniculata and ivy/primrose/thyme-based preparations and moderate evidence for P. sidoides being significantly superior to placebo in alleviating the frequency and severity of patients' cough symptoms. Additional research, including other herbal treatments, is needed in this area."
meta-analysis	FOK443813	"Acupoint Application for Asthma Therapy in Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Acupoint Application for Asthma Therapy in Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: To evaluate the evidence available on the effects of acupuncture point (acupoint) application for asthma therapy in adults. Methods: Six electronic databases were searched up to May 2014 to identify relevant studies. Randomized controlled trials, which assessed the effects of acupoint application for asthma treatment in adults, were included in our review. The methodological quality of eligible studies was assessed by the Cochrane Collaboration's tool. The standardized mean difference (SMD) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of a random-effects model were calculated. The heterogeneity was assessed using I2 statistics. Results: Eight studies were included in our review. The aggregated results indicated that acupoint application improved forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) (SMD, 0.32; 95% CI 0.04-0.60; p = 0.03), FEV1/forced vital capacity (SMD, 0.89; 95% CI 0.70-1.09; p &lt; 0.00001), interleukin (SMD, -0.26; 95% CI -0.50 to -0.01; p = 0.04) and immunoglobulin E (SMD, -0.49; 95% CI -0.83 to -0.16; p = 0.004) in patients with asthma, but not eosinophilic cation protein (SMD, -0.58; 95% CI -1.42 to 0.26; p = 0.18). There was no sufficient evidence for the follow-up effects of acupoint application for asthma therapy in adults. Conclusions: Acupoint application may be a valid complementary and alternative therapy for asthma in adults. It contributes especially to improving pulmonary function and reducing the levels of interleukin and immunoglobulin E. However, more studies with longer follow-ups are warranted to confirm the current findings."
meta-analysis	FOK453345	"Acupuncture Versus Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs for Treatment of Chondromalacia Patellae: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Acupuncture Versus Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs for Treatment of Chondromalacia Patellae: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials This systematic review aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture therapy for treating patients with chondromalacia patellae compared to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID). Eight databases including PubMed, EMBASE, CENTRAL, ISI Web of Science, CNKI, Wanfang, VIP, and CBM were searched up to June 2016. Randomized controlled trials (RCT) assessing the efficacy of acupuncture therapy were identified. The patients in experimental groups had to be treated with acupuncture therapy, and the patients in control groups had to be treated with NSAID. The outcome measures included clinical efficacy rates or pain scores. A total of 7 studies met our inclusion criteria. We analyzed the data from these 7 RCT involving 707 participants. All included studies were judged to be at high risk for bias. Compared with NSAID, acupuncture could further improve the clinical efficacy rates (Risk Ratio 2.57; 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.02, 3.27) and pain scores (Mean Difference -1.49; 95% CI -2.37, -0.62). No study reported adverse events associated with acupuncture therapy. Based on the findings in the present review, acupuncture therapy is more effective than NSAID in improving clinical efficacy rates and pain scores. However, these results should be interpreted cautiously due to the poor overall methodological quality of the included trials. Additional studies with large-scale and rigorous experimental design are required."
systematic-review	FPL319731	Speech Pathology Interventions in Patients with Neuromuscular Diseases: A Systematic Review Speech Pathology Interventions in Patients with Neuromuscular Diseases: A Systematic Review Purpose: A systematic review was conducted to summarize and evaluate the literature on the effectiveness of speech pathology interventions in adults with neuromuscular diseases. Method: Databases searched included the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, PsycINFO and PubMed. A total of 1,772 articles were independently screened on title and abstract by 2 reviewers. Results: No randomized controlled trials or clinical controlled trials were found. Four other designs were included. Only one study on oculopharyngeal muscle dystrophy (OPMD) appeared to have sufficient methodological quality. There is evidence indicating that correction of head position in patients with OPMD improves swallowing efficiency (level III evidence). Conclusion: Despite 1,772 studies, there is only evidence of level III regarding the effectiveness of speech pathology interventions in patients with OPMD. Recommendations for future research are given.
systematic-review	FPL321000	Population-Based Screening of Children for Specific Speech and Language Impairment in Germany: A Systematic Review Population-Based Screening of Children for Specific Speech and Language Impairment in Germany: A Systematic Review Objective: The study was aimed at evaluating the effectiveness of a systematic population-based screening programme for specific language impairment (SLI) in preschool children in Germany. Methods: The study question was divided into a review of (1) evidence from studies evaluating screening programmes, (2) diagnostic instruments in the German language, and (3) studies evaluating speech and language interventions. A systematic database search was conducted between June and October 2007 and was updated in January and again in May 2008. Relevant studies were identified by 2 independent reviewers based on screened titles/abstracts and full texts. Results: 4,806 studies were screened. The only existing controlled screening study did not provide data for SLI. No diagnostic study met the inclusion criteria. Sixteen randomized intervention studies were included, 3 studies contributed to the appraisal of earlier against later initiation of treatment. Most studies were of limited quality. We found indications of short-term positive effects from language therapies in children with SLI. Long-term outcomes were not investigated. No evidence supporting the advantage of earlier treatment initiation was identified. Conclusions: The benefit of population-based language screening of preschool children with SLI is not proven. Controlled screening studies are therefore necessary. For Germany, the accuracy of existing diagnostic instruments has not yet been sufficiently examined.
research-article	FPL348734	Qualitative and Quantitative Measurement of the Singing Voice Qualitative and Quantitative Measurement of the Singing Voice Objective: The aim of the study was to clarify the mechanisms underlying the singing voice. Patients and Methods: Forty-eight professional opera singers underwent flexible and rigid endoscopy, spectrographic analysis and perceptual evaluation. Results: The data provided by voice analysis were not as clear and relevant to the aim of our study as those commonly obtained for speech evaluation. Laryngoscopy with rigid and flexible fiber optics and the singing power ratio (SPR) measurement provided more applicable data. Indeed, the former allowed us to assess laryngeal position, the glottic pattern and vocal tract modifications during the actual singing performance. The latter, already recommended by other authors as a reliable vocal emission index, also yielded more relevant information in comparison with the assessment of voice quality. Specifically, SPR provided data directly correlated to both the years of singing activity and the vocal category of each singer (the higher the singing pitch, the wider the vocal extension). More importantly, the data fully reflected the subjective assessment of each phoniatrician. Conclusions: We suggest that the SPR indices can be used as the electroacoustic equivalent of the subjective judgment of vocal focus.
research-article	FPL371443	Narrative Discourse Impairments in Persian-Speaking Persons with Traumatic Brain Injury: A Pilot Study Narrative Discourse Impairments in Persian-Speaking Persons with Traumatic Brain Injury: A Pilot Study Objective: Studies have shown the presence of narrative discourse difficulties in persons with traumatic brain injury (TBI), even in those who do not suffer from aphasia. Yet, there still exist inconsistencies between the results of different studies, in particular at the microlinguistic level. Moreover, a limited number of languages have been studied in this regard. Therefore, this study aimed at examining these skills in Persian-speaking individuals with TBI. The purpose of this pilot study was to analyse the microlinguistic and macrolinguistic skills of these individuals to determine impaired linguistic measures at different levels of narrative discourse. Participants and Methods: Fourteen non-aphasic Persian-speaking persons with TBI (9 with severe TBI and 5 with moderate TBI), aged 19-40 years (mean = 25.84, SD = 5.69), and 61 age-matched healthy adults completed a narrative task. Measures of language productivity, clause density, verbal error ratio, and cohesion ratio were calculated. Also, test-retest and inter-rater reliability coefficients were analysed. Results: The TBI group was impaired in some microlinguistic and all macrolinguistic measures compared to their control peers. Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that multi-level narrative discourse analyses of Persian-speaking individuals with TBI may be useful for speech/language pathologists wishing to evaluate communication disorders in persons with TBI.
systematic-review	FPL439128	Effects of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in the Rehabilitation of Communication and Deglutition Disorders: Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Effects of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in the Rehabilitation of Communication and Deglutition Disorders: Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Objective: To systematically review randomized controlled trials that evaluate the effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on rehabilitation aspects related to communication and swallowing functions. Methods: A search was conducted on PubMed, Clinical Trials, Cochrane Library, and ASHA electronic databases. Studies were judged according to the eligibility criteria and analyzed by 2 independent and blinded researchers. Results: We analyzed 9 studies: 4 about aphasia, 3 about dysphagia, 1 about dysarthria in Parkinson's disease and 1 about linguistic deficits in Alzheimer's disease. All aphasia studies used low-frequency rTMS to stimulate Broca's homologous area. High-frequency rTMS was applied over the pharyngoesophageal cortex from the left and/or right hemisphere in the dysphagia studies and over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in the Parkinson's and Alzheimer's studies. Two aphasia and all dysphagia studies showed a significant improvement of the disorder, compared to the sham group. The other 2 studies related to aphasia found a benefit restricted to subgroups with a severe case or injury on the anterior portion of the language cortical area, respectively, whereas the Alzheimer's study demonstrated positive effects specific to auditory comprehension. There were no changes for vocal function in the Parkinson's study. Conclusion: The benefits of the technique and its applicability in neurogenic disorders related to communication and deglutition are still uncertain. Therefore, other randomized controlled trials are needed to clarify the optimal stimulation protocol for each disorder studied and its real effects.
research-article	FPL442000	Stable Voice Clusters Identified When Using the Maximum versus Minimum Intensity Curve in the Phonetogram Stable Voice Clusters Identified When Using the Maximum versus Minimum Intensity Curve in the Phonetogram Objective: To examine whether the minimum as well as the maximum voice intensity (i.e. sound pressure level, SPL) curves of a voice range profile (VRP) are required when discovering different voice groups based on a clustering analysis. In this approach, no a priori labeling of voice types is used. Patients and Methods: VRPs of 194 (84 male and 110 female) professional singers were registered and processed. Cluster analysis was performed with the use of features related to (1) both the maximum and minimum SPL curves and (2) the maximum SPL curve only. Results: Features related to the maximum as well as the minimum SPL curves showed three clusters in both male and female voices. These clusters, or voice groups, are based on voice types with similar VRP features. However, when using features related only to the maximum SPL curve, the clusters became less obvious. Conclusion: Features related to the maximum and minimum SPL curves of a VRP are both needed in order to identify the three voice clusters.
research-article	FPL493751	"An Investigation of Reliability of the Sunderland Tracheosophageal Voice Perceptual Scale An Investigation of Reliability of the Sunderland Tracheosophageal Voice Perceptual Scale Background: The Sunderland Tracheosophageal Voice Perceptual scale (SToPS) is the only perceptual rating scale designed specifically for tracheosophageal voice [Hurren et al.: Clin Otolaryngol. 2009 Dec; 34(6): 533–8]. Objective: To investigate the inter rater reliability of the SToPS when analyzing alaryngeal voice. Methods: Prospective evaluation of inter rater reliability of the SToPS based on audio recordings of 230 voice samples from 41 laryngectomy patients rated by 3 experts. Interval data were analyzed using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) while categorical data were analyzed using Kappa. Results: ICC of above 0.6 was observed between raters for each prosthesis on a majority of parameters demonstrating a good level of reliability. Reliability was fair (ICC of between 0.40 and 0.59) on Q11 (Articulatory precision) and Q12 (Paralinguistics). Reliability was also fair (0.21–0.40) or slight (0.00–0.20) for Q2 (Tonicity), which was analyzed using Kappa. Kappa above 0.61 signified a good level of reliability. Conclusions: This study demonstrates good rater reliability for the majority of parameters on the SToPS scale, supporting the use of this tool within the clinical realm. However, further research is required to ascertain if any methods of increasing inter rater reliability on those parameters which did not reach good reliability can be identified."
research-article	FPL493915	Effects of the Lidcombe Program and Parent-Child Interaction Therapy on Stuttering Reduction in Preschool Children Effects of the Lidcombe Program and Parent-Child Interaction Therapy on Stuttering Reduction in Preschool Children Purpose: The present study explored the effectiveness of the Lidcombe Program, the parent-child interaction therapy (PCIT) approach, and an integrated (Lid-PCIT) program on the treatment of children who stutter. Methods: The present research was a single-subject study with an alternative treatment design. Participants were 6 preschool children who were randomly assigned into three groups. Each group received the entire indirect (PCIT), direct (Lidcombe), or integrated (Lid-PCIT) program and were assessed through severity rating (SR), and percent stuttered syllables (%SS), and video analysis. Results: For all children the SR and the %SS were reduced but the percentage of non-overlapping data of the three interventions showed that it was reduced more in the Lidcombe and in the Lid-PCIT programs. Conclusions: This study provided preliminary evidence that Lidcombe, PCIT, and integrated programs were effective in reducing the SR and the %SS in preschool children who stutter. These results are potentially important as both indirect and direct interventions in the primary years can help children who stutter to overcome their disorder.
review-article	FPR277636	A Capuchin Monkey (Cebus apella) Uses Video to Find Food A Capuchin Monkey (Cebus apella) Uses Video to Find Food We examined the ability of capuchin monkeys to use video without immediate visual-kinaesthetic feedback as a source of information to guide their action in the 3-dimensional world. In experiment 1, 2 capuchins learned to retrieve food under 1 of 2 different objects in 1 cage after watching the experimenter hiding food under 1 of 2 replica objects while in another cage. Information space and retrieval space were thus separate. The performance criterion was 71% first correct choices in blocks of 24 trials. However, when the subjects watched prerecorded videos of the hiding events, they chose randomly. In experiment 2, we gave the capuchins further trials with video and we enhanced the object shapes by line drawings. One capuchin eventually learned to use the video clips to locate food and he generalized this learning to 2 new objects.
systematic-review	FPR343716	Predation by Mammalian Carnivores on Nocturnal Primates: Is the Lack of Evidence Support for the Effectiveness of Nocturnality as an Antipredator Strategy? Predation by Mammalian Carnivores on Nocturnal Primates: Is the Lack of Evidence Support for the Effectiveness of Nocturnality as an Antipredator Strategy? The apparent paucity of accounts of predation, particularly by felids, on nocturnal primates is confirmed by a quasi-systematic review of 1,939 publications which revealed just 1 case of a felid eating a nocturnal primate. This instance was amongst only 51 direct reports of predation by vertebrates on nocturnal primates (90% were on Madagascar, where 56% of approx. 110 nocturnal primate species occur), of which 41% were by birds of prey. These findings prompt discussion of two possibilities: (a) nocturnality is, in part, an effective antipredator adaptation, and (b) knowledge of nocturnal primates is so biased by their elusiveness and, for predation, underreporting (e.g. inadequate mechanisms to publish opportunistic observations) that understanding of their biology urgently necessitates both the collation of field observations and innovative research. Interspecific comparisons facilitate deductions about the role of predation in the evolution of primate nocturnality and associated traits, but intraspecific comparisons of changing activity rhythms in response to different levels of predation risk offer the most compelling insights into the functional significance of these adaptations.
research-article	FPR346964	Group Size of a Permanent Large Group of Agile Mangabeys (Cercocebus agilis) at Bai Hokou, Central African Republic Group Size of a Permanent Large Group of Agile Mangabeys (Cercocebus agilis) at Bai Hokou, Central African Republic White-eyelid mangabeys (genus Cercocebus) live in groups of highly variable size. Because of their semi-terrestrial behaviour and preference for dense forest habitats, re-liable data on group size are scarce. During a 5-month study, we collected 17 group counts on a habituated group of agile mangabeys (C. agilis) at Bai Hokou in the Central African Republic. We found a stable group size of approximately 135 individuals. This permanent large grouping pattern is known to occur among several populations of white-eyelid mangabeys and is congruent with extreme group sizes reported in mandrills at Lopé in Gabon.
research-article	FPR348305	A Comparison of Scan and Focal Sampling for the Description of Wild Primate Activity, Diet and Intragroup Spatial Relationships A Comparison of Scan and Focal Sampling for the Description of Wild Primate Activity, Diet and Intragroup Spatial Relationships We used data collected during two concurrent studies of black howler monkeys (Alouatta pigra) in Palenque National Park, Mexico, to compare systematically three methods of behavioral data collection [group activity scan sampling (group scans), instantaneous focal individual sampling (instantaneous focals) and continuous focal individual sampling (continuous focals)] and three methods of proximity data collection [group proximity scan sampling (group proximity scans), focal individual proximity scan sampling (focal proximity scans) and instantaneous focal individual nearest neighbor sampling (focal nearest neighbor samples)]. We conducted pairwise comparisons of data among methods using Pearson correlations and one-sample t tests. A series of Kruskal-Wallis tests were performed to compare the activity and proximity patterns of adult males, adult females and juveniles described by each method. The three behavioral data collection methods generally provided similar information about activity and diet. However, important differences for both activity and proximity data existed among methods. Instantaneous focals overestimated the percentage of time spent in social interactions, while group scans overestimated time spent moving and underestimated time spent feeding. Group proximity scans and focal proximity scans provided similar spatial data, while focal nearest neighbor samples were more appropriate for determining the influence of one individual on another at any given moment. These biases suggest the importance of deliberate method selection during project design and highlight the need for taking methods into account when comparing studies.
research-article	FPR348307	The Effect of Forest Fragment Characteristics on Abundance of Colobus vellerosus in the Forest-Savanna Transition Zone of Ghana The Effect of Forest Fragment Characteristics on Abundance of Colobus vellerosus in the Forest-Savanna Transition Zone of Ghana We explore the factors influencing the abundance of Colobus vellerosus in 11 forest fragments [Boabeng-Fiema Monkey Sanctuary and 9 surrounding forest fragments (range: 3.2-190 ha)] in the forest-savanna transition zone of Ghana. We used a ‘complete' count for the colobus census in the fragments. We determined the fragment sizes using geographic information system methods and assessed forest fragment quality (tree species richness). Colobus individuals were absent from 4 forest fragments but present in 7 (densities of 0.13/ha-1.63/ha). We modelled colobus density using Poisson regression and selected models based on corrected Akaike information criterion model weights. Fragment size and tree species richness in the fragments were positively associated with colobus density, whereas isolation distance of the forest fragments (range: 20-5,632 m) was negatively associated with colobus density. Our analysis suggests that the isolation distance between the fragments and Boabeng does impede colobus movement. As the colobus populations in Boabeng and Fiema increase, some of the unoccupied fragments may become more attractive to dispersing monkeys. Management measures that aim at increasing tree species richness within fragments, while maintaining some large trees between fragments, might help to increase the occupancy of some of the fragments that currently have no permanent colobus groups.
research-article	FPR371633	"Dental Shape Variability in Cercopithecoid Primates: A Model for the Taxonomic Attribution of Macaques from Roman Archaeological Contexts Dental Shape Variability in Cercopithecoid Primates: A Model for the Taxonomic Attribution of Macaques from Roman Archaeological Contexts Morphometric variation of biological structures has been widely used to determine taxonomic affinities among taxa, and teeth are especially informative for both deep phylogenetic relationships and specific ecological signals. We report 2-dimensional geometric morphometrics (GM) analyses of occlusal crown surfaces of lower molars (M1, n = 141; M2, n = 158) of cercopithecoid primate species. A 12-landmark configuration, including cusp tips and 8 points of the molar crown contour, were used to evaluate patterns of variation in lower molar shape among cercopithecoid primates and to predict the taxonomic attribution of 2 archaeological macaques from Roman time periods. The results showed that the lower molar shape of cercopithecoid primates reflects taxonomic affinities, mostly at a subfamily level and close to a tribe level. Thus, the cusp positions and crown contour were important elements of the pattern related to interspecific variation. Additionally, the archaeological specimens, attributed to Macaca sylvanus based on osteological information, were classified using the GM molar shape variability of the cercopithecoid primates studied. The results suggest that their molar shape resembled both M. sylvanus and M. nemestrina, and species attribution varied depending on the comparative sample used."
review-article	FPR478775	Tooth Wear Inclination in Great Ape Molars Tooth Wear Inclination in Great Ape Molars Primate dietary diversity is reflected in their dental morphology, with differences in size and shape of teeth. In particular, the tooth wear angle can provide insight into a species' ability to break down certain foods. To examine dietary and masticatory information, digitized polygon models of dental casts provide a basis for quantitative analysis of wear associated with tooth attrition. In this study, we analyze and compare the wear patterns of Pongo pygmaeus, Gorilla gorillagorilla and Pan troglodytes schweinfurthii lower molars, focusing on the degree of inclination of specific wear facets. The variation in wear angles appears to be indicative of jaw movements and the specific stresses imposed on food during mastication, reflecting thus the ecology of these species. Orangutans exhibit flatter wear angles, more typical of a diet consisting of hard and brittle foods, while gorillas show a wear pattern with a high degree of inclination, reflecting thus their more leafy diet. Chimpanzees, on the other hand, show intermediate inclinations, a pattern that could be related to their highly variable diet. This method is demonstrated to be a powerful tool for better understanding the relationship between food, mastication and tooth wear processes in living primates, and can be potentially used to reconstruct the diet of fossil species.
review-article	FPR479106	Techniques Used by Bearded Capuchin Monkeys (Sapajus libidinosus) to Access Water in a Semi-Arid Environment of North-Eastern Brazil Techniques Used by Bearded Capuchin Monkeys (Sapajus libidinosus) to Access Water in a Semi-Arid Environment of North-Eastern Brazil The exploratory behaviour and the ability of capuchin monkeys to use tools allows them to thrive at times and places of limited food and water abundance, such as in semi-arid environments. Here, we report the behaviours employed by individuals belonging to a wild group of bearded capuchin monkeys (Sapajus libidinosus) to access natural water sources in a dry forest of north-eastern Brazil. An adult female employed a twig as a tool and her tail to gain access to accumulated rainwater in a tree hole, and other individuals used their hands and mouth to manipulate orchids' pseudobulbs and the liquid endosperm of palm nuts. The behaviour of wild Sapajus to access water from non-food sources may enable them to circumvent the risk of dehydration in environments with reduced availability of fleshy fruits and with ephemeral and rare water sources. Our findings contribute to the still scarce but accumulating reports on primate drinking behaviour and to the knowledge of tool use in wild populations of capuchin monkeys, enriching our understanding of primate strategies to gain access to a vital resource under challenging conditions.
systematic-review	GAT431045	Pancreatic Metastases from Tumors in the Urogenital Tract Pancreatic Metastases from Tumors in the Urogenital Tract Background: Isolated pancreatic metastases or pancreatic metastases with limited extrapancreatic disease are uncommon and account for only 2-4% of resected malignant pancreatic lesions in surgical series. However, clear-cell renal cell carcinoma is the predominant primary tumor and accounts for more than 60% of cases with isolated pancreatic metastases. Pancreatectomy is the treatment of choice for most patients with isolated pancreatic metastases from renal cell cancer. Summary: This review provides an overview of clinical presentation and diagnosis as well as surgical management, including patient selection for surgery and surgical technique for pancreatic metastases of renal cell carcinoma. Key Message: Although there is no high-level evidence that surgical resection of pancreatic metastases improves survival, the survival results of several observational series and of systematic reviews are promising and support pancreatic resection as part of a multimodal treatment. The reported median survival and 5-year survival rates after pancreatic resection range from 6 to 10 years and from 55 to 75%, respectively. Pancreatic resection is effective for local control. However, extrapancreatic progression frequently occurs. With the introduction of novel systemic therapy options such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors, the prognosis of metastatic renal cell carcinoma has improved, and this will affect the role of pancreatic resection for metastases. Practical Implications: Pancreatic resection for isolated renal cell carcinoma is safe and effective, may confer a survival benefit and should, therefore, be considered in patients for whom no contraindication for surgery exists.
review-article	GAT452708	Periodontal Pathogens in the Etiology of Pancreatic Cancer Periodontal Pathogens in the Etiology of Pancreatic Cancer Background: Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Chronic pancreatitis is frequently observed in patients with pancreatic cancer, and a significant relationship between orodigestive cancer-related deaths and chronic periodontitis has been detected. Porphyromonas gingivalis, Tannerella forsythia, and Treponema denticola, collectively called the Red complex, are the major pathogens responsible for chronic periodontitis and secrete peptidylarginine deiminase. Anti-P. gingivalis antibodies titers are higher in pancreatic cancer patients than in healthy subjects. Summary: This review examines the association between oral bacteria and the etiology of pancreatic cancer. Key Message: High rates of tumor suppressor gene p53 mutations, particularly p53 arginine mutations, were detected in pancreatic cancer patients. K-ras arginine mutations were detected in patients with pancreatic cancer. Oral bacteria peptidylarginine deiminases might lead to the p53 and K-ras point mutations by degrading arginine. Practical Implications: Oral bacteria are likely to be responsible for the development of pancreatic cancer. If this hypothesis is true, it may reveal the real cause of pancreatic cancer, which is a fatal disease.
meta-analysis	GAT455846	"Enucleation versus Anatomic Resection for Giant Hepatic Hemangioma: A Meta-Analysis Enucleation versus Anatomic Resection for Giant Hepatic Hemangioma: A Meta-Analysis Background: Hepatic hemangiomas are the most common benign liver tumors, and the management of giant hepatic hemangioma (GHH) is still in controversial. The aim of this meta-analysis was to compare the postoperative outcomes of enucleation versus anatomic resection for GHH. Methods: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library were searched from January 1988 to December 2015 to identify studies comparing the outcomes of enucleation versus anatomic resection for GHH. Finally, we performed this meta-analysis using the Review Manager 5.3 software, and the results were presented as risk ratio (RR) or mean difference (MD) with corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI). The major limitation is that all data were derived from nonrandomized studies, and we cannot exclude potential selection bias. Results: Nine studies involving 1,185 patients were included. The results showed that there was a lower incidence of complications (RR = 0.66, 95% CI 0.52 to 0.84, I2 = 0%, p = 0.0007); no incidents of death occurred among the 9 included trials. Blood loss (MD = -419.07 mL, 95% CI -575.04 to -263.09, I2 = 83%, p &lt; 0.00001), duration of surgery (MD = -23.5 min, 95% CI -45.28 to -1.74, I2 = 0%, p = 0.03), and length of hospital stay (MD = -1.59 days, 95% CI -3.06 to -0.13, I2 = 0%, p = 0.03) were much lower in the enucleation group. Conclusions: GHH can be removed safely by either enucleation or anatomic resection. Enucleation can preserve more hepatic parenchyma and reduce postoperative complications, which is why it should be the preferred surgical procedure for suitable lesions."
research-article	GAT495406	Three-Dimensional Remnant Pancreatic Volumetry Predicts Postoperative Pancreatic Fistula in Pancreatic Cancer Patients after Pancreaticoduodenectomy Three-Dimensional Remnant Pancreatic Volumetry Predicts Postoperative Pancreatic Fistula in Pancreatic Cancer Patients after Pancreaticoduodenectomy Background: Postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) is a serious complication that can occur following pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD). Recent studies suggest that remnant pancreatic volume (RPV) values from preoperative multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) are highly predictive of POPF. We performed three-dimensional (3D) surgical simulation of PD including RPV measurements. The aim of this study was to determine whether 3D-measured RPV is predictive of POPF after PD. Methods: We used the SYNAPSE VINCENT® medical imaging system (Fujifilm Medical Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan) to construct 3D images after integrating MDCT and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography images. RPV was measured using this 3D image, which simulated actual intraoperative pancreatic parenchymal remnant volume. Ninety-one patients who underwent PD were retrospectively enrolled. Using multivariate analysis, RPV and other well-known POPF risk factors were independently assessed. Results: Multivariate analysis identified high RPV values (hazard ratio [HR] = 8.41, p = 0.01), pancreatic duct diameter &
review-article	GER300565	Deer Antlers – A Model of Mammalian Appendage Regeneration: An Extensive Review Deer Antlers – A Model of Mammalian Appendage Regeneration: An Extensive Review Background: Compared with other vertebrate taxa, mammals possess a very limited capacity for appendage regeneration. The antlers of deer are an exception in that they are periodically lost and fully regenerated throughout the life of an individual. Objective: In this paper we compare certain aspects of antler regeneration with regenerative processes in other vertebrates. Methods: Review of the literature. Results: Recent studies suggest that antler regeneration is a stem cell-based process and that these stem cells are located in the pedicle periosteum. There is evidence that signaling pathways known to operate during appendage regeneration in other vertebrates are also activated during antler regeneration. There are, however, also differences between antlers and other systems of epimorphic regeneration. Thus, contrary to amphibian limb regeneration, signaling from the wound epidermis appears not to be of crucial importance for antler regeneration. Healing of the casting wound typically involves no or only minor scarring, making antlers interesting subjects for researchers attempting to reduce scar formation during wound healing in humans. The fact that despite their enormous growth rate the antlers of intact and castrated deer appear to be resistant to malignant transformation furthermore offers research opportunities for cancer biology. Conclusions: Studying antler renewal as an example of mammalian appendage regeneration may provide crucial information for regenerative medicine to achieve its ultimate goal of stimulating limb regeneration in humans. A deeper understanding of the developmental mechanisms involved in antler renewal can also be useful for controlling induced regeneration processes in mammals.
review-article	GER300569	Mechanisms Contributing to Decision-Making Difficulties in Late Adulthood: Theoretical Approaches, Speculations and Empirical Evidence Mechanisms Contributing to Decision-Making Difficulties in Late Adulthood: Theoretical Approaches, Speculations and Empirical Evidence This paper responds to McCarrey, Henry and Luszcz’s reply to our viewpoint article on aging and decision-making. McCarrey et al. have provided a thoughtful critique and very inspiring suggestions for future research. We comment on several aspects that have been considered by these authors. In particular, we consider the empirical evidence for cognitive functions involved in decision-making, Finucane’s model on real-world decision-making, the form of contextual encoding of information related to a decision, components of the so-called Socioemotional Selectivity Theory, and parts of autobiographical memory functions. We argue that the mechanisms suggested by McCarrey et al. indeed may potentially contribute to decision-making difficulties in late adulthood. However, we also point out that – at least for gambling situations which have been addressed in our target article – the most convergent findings revealed by previous empirical studies give evidence for the important role of executive functioning and feedback processing for decision-making reductions in older adults as measured by neuropsychological gambling tasks. The additional mechanisms suggested and the potential link between other types of decision-making (e.g. within the social domain) and performance on gambling tasks as proposed by McCarrey et al. are worth investigating in future studies. We conclude that the arguments by McCarrey et al. are without doubt plausible, but for the topic addressed in the viewpoint article they are, so far, rather speculative than evidence-based. The possible interactions between cognitive and emotional processes and further situational and individual facets potentially influencing decision-making in older adults are to be investigated empirically in future studies. We hope that our previous viewpoint article in combination with the thoughtful reply by McCarrey et al. and our current paper will inspire future research programs on the important topic of decision-making in late adulthood.
review-article	GER302713	Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and the Department of Veterans Affairs: A Conceptual Model for Understanding the Evacuation of Nursing Homes Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and the Department of Veterans Affairs: A Conceptual Model for Understanding the Evacuation of Nursing Homes Background: Hurricanes Katrina and Rita exposed significant flaws in US preparedness for catastrophic events and the nation’s capacity to respond to them. These flaws were especially evident in the affected disaster areas’ nursing homes, which house a particularly vulnerable population of frail older adults. Although evacuation of a healthcare facility is a key preparedness activity, there is limited research on factors that lead to effective evacuation. Objective: Our review of the literature on evacuation is focused on developing a conceptual framework to study future evacuations rather than as a comprehensive assessment of prior work. Methods: This paper summarizes what is known thus far about disaster response activities of nursing homes following natural and human-caused disasters, describes a conceptual model to guide future inquiry regarding this topic, and suggests future areas of research to further understand the decision-making process of nursing home facilitators regarding evacuating nursing home residents. To demonstrate the utility of the conceptual model and to provide guidance about effective practices and procedures, this paper focuses on the responses of Veterans Health Administration (VHA) nursing homes to the 2 hurricanes. Results: Quarantelli’s conceptual framework, as modified by Perry and Mushkatel, is useful in guiding the development of central hypotheses related to the decision-making that occurred in VA nursing homes and other healthcare facilities following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. However, we define evacuation somewhat differently to account for the fact that evacuation may, in some instances, be permanent. Thus, we propose modifying this framework to improve its applicability beyond preventive evacuation. Conclusions: We need to better understand how disaster plans can be adapted to meet the needs of frail elders and other residents in nursing homes. Moreover, we must address identified gaps in the scientific literature with respect to health outcomes by tracking outcomes over time. Information on health outcomes would allow administrators and others to more appropriately weigh the balance of risks and benefits associated with evacuation. Without this understanding of the relationship between evacuation and health outcomes, it is not possible to develop effective response plans that are tailored to meet the needs of nursing home residents.
review-article	GER310174	Telomeres, Aging, and Plants: From Weeds to Methuselah – A Mini-Review Telomeres, Aging, and Plants: From Weeds to Methuselah – A Mini-Review The process of aging affects most, if not all, living creatures, from single celled yeast to multi-cellular mammals and plants. The DNA end-replication problem along with the tissue-limited expression of telomerase led to the telomere hypothesis of aging, where limits on cellular proliferation are genetically encoded in the lengths of a cell’s telomeres. Support for this hypothesis has been found in several organisms, from worms to mice to humans. While development, and therefore the process of aging, is quite different between plants and animals, telomere biology between these organisms is fundamentally the same. Do telomeres, then, also play the role of a molecular clock in plants? In this review, we explore the current knowledge of the relationship between telomeres and aging in plants in three specific cases: leaf senescence, aging of perennials and seed longevity.
systematic-review	GER322241	Interventions Aiming at Balance Confidence Improvement in Older Adults: An Updated Review Interventions Aiming at Balance Confidence Improvement in Older Adults: An Updated Review Background: Loss of balance confidence is a frequent condition that affects 20–75% of community-dwelling older persons. Although a recent fall is a common trigger, loss of balance confidence also appears independent of previous experience with falls. Maintaining or improving balance confidence is important to avoid unnecessary, self-imposed restrictions of activity and subsequent disability. Holding another person’s hand or using an assistive device while walking are simple interventions that are used naturally to address poor balance confidence in daily life. However, more complex interventions have also been developed and tested to achieve more sustained improvement in balance confidence. Objectives: This review describes interventions that have been tested to improve balance confidence in older community-dwelling persons. Methods: Based on 2 recent systematic reviews, an additional search for literature was performed to update current information on interventions aiming at balance confidence improvement. Interventions were classified as those directly aimed at increasing balance confidence or not, and further stratified into those using monofactorial or multifactorial approaches. Results: A total of 46 randomized controlled trials were identified. Five of the 8 interventions that directly targeted balance confidence showed benefits. Among those, multicomponent behavioral group interventions provided the most robust evidence of benefits in improving balance confidence and in decreasing activity avoidance. Among interventions not directly aiming at balance confidence improvement (11/21 studies with benefits), exercise (including tai chi) appears as the most promising monofactorial intervention. Nine of the 17 multifactorial fall prevention programs showed an effect on balance confidence, exercise being a main component in 7 of these 9 studies. Interventions that targeted elderly persons reporting poor balance confidence and/or those at risk for falls seemed more likely to be beneficial. Conclusions: Positive and sometimes sustained improvement in balance confidence can be achieved by various interventions among community-dwelling elderly persons. The effect of these interventions on activity restriction associated with poor balance confidence have been less well studied, but some studies also suggest potential benefits.
systematic-review	GER341652	Elder Abuse and Psychological Well-Being: A Systematic Review and Implications for Research and Policy - A Mini Review Elder Abuse and Psychological Well-Being: A Systematic Review and Implications for Research and Policy - A Mini Review Elder abuse and psychological distress are both important geriatric syndromes and are independently associated with premature morbidity and mortality. Despite recent advances, there has been little systematic exploration of the association between elder abuse and psychological distress. This systematic review synthesizes the qualitative and quantitative studies on the relationship between elder abuse and psychological distress, namely psychological distress as a risk factor and/or a consequence of elder abuse. Moreover, through this review, future research directions for elder abuse and psychological distress and their implications for practice and policy to improve the health and aging of vulnerable populations are also highlighted.
research-article	GER347197	"Effects of Comprehensive Health Assessment and Targeted Intervention on Chair Rise Capacity in Active and Inactive Community-Dwelling Older People Effects of Comprehensive Health Assessment and Targeted Intervention on Chair Rise Capacity in Active and Inactive Community-Dwelling Older People Background: Being able to rise from a chair is an important daily life activity that requires sufficient lower extremity muscle power and postural control. Objective: To assess the effects of an individually tailored intervention on the chair rise capacity of active and inactive community-dwelling older men and women. Methods: This study included a community-based sample of ≥75-year-olds who were randomized into intervention (n = 299) and control (n = 260) groups. The intervention started in 2004 and ended in December 2006; all the participants of the intervention group received individually targeted physical activity counseling annually and had an opportunity to participate in supervised strength and balance training once a week. Chair rise tests were conducted annually. The mixed model of linear regression was used for unadjusted measurements and age, and the Mini-Mental State Examination and functional comorbidity index adjusted comparisons of effects of the intervention. Results: The intervention improved the chair rise capacity in physically active women (adjusted mean difference -1.67 s, 95% confidence interval -3.21 to -0.13, p = 0.02). There was no improvement in inactive women or in men, regardless of their physical activity level. Conclusion: Intervention showed a positive effect on the chair rise capacity of physically active community-dwelling older women."
systematic-review	GER354211	Frailty and Technology: A Systematic Review of Gait Analysis in Those with Frailty Frailty and Technology: A Systematic Review of Gait Analysis in Those with Frailty Background: New technologies for gait assessment are emerging and have provided new avenues for accurately measuring gait characteristics in home and clinic. However, potential meaningful clinical gait parameters beyond speed have received little attention in frailty research. Objective: To study gait characteristics in different frailty status groups for identifying the most useful parameters and assessment protocols for frailty diagnosis. Methods: We searched PubMed, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, and Age Line. Articles were selected according to the following criteria: (1) population: individuals defined as frail, prefrail, or transitioning to frail, and (2) outcome measures: quantitative gait variables as obtained by biomechanical analysis. Effect sizes (d) were calculated for the ability of parameters to discriminate between different frailty status groups. Results: Eleven publications met inclusion criteria. Frailty definitions, gait protocols and parameters were inconsistent, which made comparison of outcomes difficult. Effect sizes were calculated only for the three studies which compared at least two different frailty status groups. Gait speed shows the highest effect size to discriminate between frailty subgroups, in particular during habitual walking (d = 0.76-6.17). Gait variability also discriminates between different frailty status groups in particular during fast walking. Prominent parameters related to prefrailty are reduced cadence (d = 1.43) and increased step width variability (d = 0.64), whereas frailty (vs. prefrail status) is characterized by reduced step length during habitual walking (d = 1.32) and increased double support during fast walking (d = 0.78). Interestingly, one study suggested that dual-task walking speed can be used to predict prospective frailty development. Conclusion: Gait characteristics in people with frailty are insufficiently analyzed in the literature and represent a major area for innovation. Despite the paucity of work, current results suggest that parameters beyond speed could be helpful in identifying different categories of frailty. Increased gait variability might reflect a multisystem reduction and may be useful in identifying frailty. In addition, a demanding task such as fast walking or adding a cognitive distractor might enhance the sensitivity and specificity of frailty risk prediction and classification, and is recommended for frailty assessment using gait analysis.
systematic-review	GER365248	Age and Sex as Moderators of the Placebo Response - An Evaluation of Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses across Medicine Age and Sex as Moderators of the Placebo Response - An Evaluation of Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses across Medicine Predictors of the placebo response (PR) in randomized controlled trials (RCT) have been searched for ever since RCT have become the standard for testing novel therapies and age and gender are routinely documented data in all trials irrespective of the drug tested, its indication, and the primary and secondary end points chosen. To evaluate whether age and gender have been found to be reliable predictors of the PR across medical subspecialties, we extracted 75 systematic reviews, meta-analyses, and meta-regressions performed in major medical areas (neurology, psychiatry, internal medicine) known for high PR rates. The literature database used contains approximately 2,500 papers on various aspects of the genuine PR. These ‘meta-analyses' were screened for statistical predictors of the PR across multiple RCT, including age and gender, but also other patient-based and design-based predictors of higher PR rates. Retrieved papers were sorted for areas and disease categories. Only 15 of the 75 analyses noted an effect of younger age to be associated with higher PR, and this was predominantly in psychiatric conditions but not in depression, and internal medicine but not in gastroenterology. Female gender was associated with higher PR in only 3 analyses. Among the patient-based predictors, the most frequently noted factor was lower symptom severity at baseline, and among the design-based factors, it was a randomization ratio that selected more patients to drugs than to placebo, more frequent study visits, and more recent trials that were associated with higher PR rates. While younger age may contribute to the PR in some conditions, sex does not. There is currently no evidence that the PR is different in the elderly. PR are, however, markedly influenced by the symptom severity at baseline, and by the likelihood of receiving active treatment in placebo-controlled trials.
research-article	GER371444	"Patterns of Psychological Adaptation to Spousal Bereavement in Old Age Patterns of Psychological Adaptation to Spousal Bereavement in Old Age Background: While the negative effects of spousal bereavement on well-being are well documented in empirical research, the large individual differences in psychological adaptation are still not well understood. Objective: This contribution aims to identify patterns of psychological adaptation to spousal loss in old age and to shed light on the role of intra- and interpersonal resources and contextual factors as discriminant variables among these patterns. Methods: The data stem from a cross-sectional questionnaire study of 402 widowed individuals (228 women, 174 men) aged between 60 and 89 years (mean age 74.41 years), who lost their partner within the last 5 years, and 618 married individuals, who served as controls (312 women, 306 men; mean age 73.82 years). Results: The exploratory latent profile analysis of the well-being outcomes of depressive symptoms, hopelessness, loneliness, life satisfaction and subjective health revealed three different groups in the widowed sample: ‘resilients' (54% of the sample), ‘copers' (39%) and ‘vulnerables' (7%). The most important variables for group allocation were intrapersonal resources - psychological resilience and the Big Five personality traits - but also the quality of the former relationship and how the loss was experienced. Conclusion: Successful adaptation to spousal loss is primarily associated with high scores in psychological resilience and extraversion and low scores in neuroticism. Our results shed light on the variability in psychological adaptation and underline the important role of intrapersonal resources in facing spousal loss in old age."
meta-analysis	GER371577	"Effects of Physical Exercise Interventions on Gait-Related Dual-Task Interference in Older Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effects of Physical Exercise Interventions on Gait-Related Dual-Task Interference in Older Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Dual-task interference during walking can substantially limit mobility and increase the risk of falls among community-dwelling older adults. Previous systematic reviews examining intervention effects on dual-task gait and mobility have not assessed relative dual-task costs (DTC) or investigated whether there are differences in treatment-related changes based on the type of dual task or the type of control group. The purpose of this systematic review was to examine the effects of physical exercise interventions on dual-task performance during walking in older adults. A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) compared treatment effects between physical exercise intervention and control groups on single- and dual-task gait speed and relative DTC on gait speed. A systematic search of the literature was conducted using the electronic databases PubMed, CINAHL, EMBASE, Web of Science, and PsycINFO searched up to September 19, 2014. Randomized, nonrandomized, and uncontrolled studies published in English and involving older adults were selected. Studies had to include a physical exercise intervention protocol and measure gait parameters during continuous, unobstructed walking in single- and dual-task conditions before and after the intervention. Of 614 abstracts, 21 studies met the inclusion criteria and were included in the systematic review. Fourteen RCTs were included in the meta-analysis. The mean difference between the intervention and control groups significantly favored the intervention for single-task gait speed (mean difference: 0.06 m/s, 95% CI: 0.03, 0.10, p &lt; 0.001), dual-task gait speed (mean difference: 0.11 m/s, 95% CI 0.07, 0.15, p &lt; 0.001), and DTC on gait speed (mean difference: 5.23%, 95% CI 1.40, 9.05, p = 0.007). Evidence from subgroup comparisons showed no difference in treatment-related changes between cognitive-motor and motor-motor dual tasks, or when interventions were compared to active or inactive controls. In summary, physical exercise interventions can improve dual-task walking in older adults primarily by increasing the speed at which individuals walk in dual-task conditions. Currently, evidence concerning whether physical exercise interventions reduce DTC or alter the self-selected dual-task strategy during unobstructed walking is greatly lacking, mainly due to the failure of studies to measure and report reciprocal dual-task effects on the non-gait task."
research-article	GER371578	White Adipose Tissue Depot-Specific Activity of Lipogenic Enzymes in Response to Fasting and Refeeding in Young and Old Rats White Adipose Tissue Depot-Specific Activity of Lipogenic Enzymes in Response to Fasting and Refeeding in Young and Old Rats Background: Although the heterogeneity of white adipose tissue (WAT) in different anatomical sites is a well-known phenomenon, there are scarce data on aging-associated metabolic alterations in various WAT depots. Objective: We used the model of fasting and refeeding to analyze the effect of aging on the activity of key lipogenic enzymes in retroperitoneal (rWAT), epididymal (eWAT), and subcutaneous (sWAT) adipose tissue depots. Methods: 5- and 24-month-old male Wistar rats were fasted for 48 h or were fasted for 2 days and subsequently refed for 2 or 4 days. Control animals had ad libitum access to chow. Samples obtained from three WAT deposits were analyzed for the enzymatic activities of ATP citrate lyase (ACL), fatty acid synthase (FAS), and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD). Concentrations of lipids and proteins were measured in the blood serum. Results: Fasting for 2 days decreased the concentration of free fatty acids only in the young rats. The basal activities of ACL and FAS were lower in eWAT than in rWAT and sWAT of the young rats. In the young rats, fasting did not change ACL and FAS activities in any of the studied depots. Refeeding increased these activities more quickly in rWAT than in eWAT, while in sWAT no induction was observed. ACL and FAS activities were manifold lower in all WAT depots of the old than in those of the young rats. In the old animals fasting had no effect on ACL activity in any depot and decreased FAS activity only in sWAT. After 4 days of refeeding, FAS activity increased in rWAT and sWAT, but no change in ACL activity occurred. G6PD activity in the young rats was lower by 40% in eWAT than in rWAT. The induction of the enzyme by refeeding occurred faster in rWAT than in eWAT, while in sWAT no change in G6PD activity was observed. G6PD activity did not change with aging. Fasting of the old rats decreased G6PD activity in rWAT and sWAT. Refeeding failed to induce the enzyme in these depots, whereas in eWAT G6PD activity increased by 76% after 4 days of refeeding. Conclusion: Fasting and refeeding revealed WAT depot-specific, age-related changes of the activities of lipogenic enzymes.
research-article	GER371845	The RANKL-RANK Story The RANKL-RANK Story Receptor activator of nuclear factor &
research-article	GER371846	"Sensor-Based Interactive Balance Training with Visual Joint Movement Feedback for Improving Postural Stability in Diabetics with Peripheral Neuropathy: A Randomized Controlled Trial Sensor-Based Interactive Balance Training with Visual Joint Movement Feedback for Improving Postural Stability in Diabetics with Peripheral Neuropathy: A Randomized Controlled Trial Background: Individuals with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) have deficits in sensory and motor skills leading to inadequate proprioceptive feedback, impaired postural balance and higher fall risk. Objective: This study investigated the effect of sensor-based interactive balance training on postural stability and daily physical activity in older adults with diabetes. Methods: Thirty-nine older adults with DPN were enrolled (age 63.7 ± 8.2 years, BMI 30.6 ± 6, 54% females) and randomized to either an intervention (IG) or a control (CG) group. The IG received sensor-based interactive exercise training tailored for people with diabetes (twice a week for 4 weeks). The exercises focused on shifting weight and crossing virtual obstacles. Body-worn sensors were implemented to acquire kinematic data and provide real-time joint visual feedback during the training. Outcome measurements included changes in center of mass (CoM) sway, ankle and hip joint sway measured during a balance test while the eyes were open and closed at baseline and after the intervention. Daily physical activities were also measured during a 48-hour period at baseline and at follow-up. Analysis of covariance was performed for the post-training outcome comparison. Results: Compared with the CG, the patients in the IG showed a significantly reduced CoM sway (58.31%; p = 0.009), ankle sway (62.7%; p = 0.008) and hip joint sway (72.4%; p = 0.017) during the balance test with open eyes. The ankle sway was also significantly reduced in the IG group (58.8%; p = 0.037) during measurements while the eyes were closed. The number of steps walked showed a substantial but nonsignificant increase (+27.68%; p = 0.064) in the IG following training. Conclusion: The results of this randomized controlled trial demonstrate that people with DPN can significantly improve their postural balance with diabetes-specific, tailored, sensor-based exercise training. The results promote the use of wearable technology in exercise training; however, future studies comparing this technology with commercially available systems are required to evaluate the benefit of interactive visual joint movement feedback."
research-article	GER371847	"The Relationship of Sleep Duration with Obesity and Sarcopenia in Community-Dwelling Older Adults The Relationship of Sleep Duration with Obesity and Sarcopenia in Community-Dwelling Older Adults Background: Numerous studies have reported the relationship between sleep duration and obesity in elderly adults; however, little is known about the relationship of sleep duration and sarcopenia. Objective: We examined the relationship of sleep duration with obesity and sarcopenia in community-dwelling older adults. Methods: A total of 488 community-dwelling adults (224 men and 264 women) aged ≥65 years were included in the analysis. Self-reported sleep duration and anthropometric data were collected. Skeletal muscle mass was estimated using the predicted equation from a bioelectrical impedance analysis measurement. Obesity and sarcopenia were defined according to the body mass index and the skeletal muscle mass index, respectively. Results: The association between sleep duration and sarcopenia exhibited a U shape in older adults. Compared to adults with 6-8 h of sleep, adults with &lt;6 h of sleep had a nearly 3-fold increased likelihood of sarcopenia (odds ratio, OR: 2.76, 95% confidence interval, CI: 1.28-5.96), while adults with ≥8 h of sleep had a nearly 2-fold increased risk of sarcopenia (OR: 1.89, 95% CI: 1.01-3.54). Older adults with a sleep duration &lt;6 h were more prone to obesity (OR: 2.15, 95% CI: 1.08−4.30). After gender stratification, the association between obesity and short sleep duration was more robust in women. Conclusion: There were significant associations of sleep duration with either obesity or sarcopenia in community-dwelling older adults. Gender differences in these associations were also observed."
systematic-review	GER431285	"Regulation of Cardiac Autonomic Nervous System Control across Frailty Statuses: A Systematic Review Regulation of Cardiac Autonomic Nervous System Control across Frailty Statuses: A Systematic Review Background: Frailty is a geriatric syndrome that leads to impairment in interrelated physiological systems and progressive homeostatic dysregulation in physiological systems. Objective: The focus of the present systematic review was to study the association between the activity of the cardiac autonomic nervous system (ANS) and frailty. Methods: A systematic literature search was conducted in multiple databases: PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, CINAHL, and ClinicalTrials.gov; the last search was performed in March 2015. Inclusion criteria were: (1) that the studied population was classified for frailty according to a standard definition, such as Fried's criteria; (2) that the study had a nonfrail control group, and (3) that heart rate (HR) and/or heart rate variability (HRV) were parameters of interest in the study. Results: Of the 1,544 articles screened, 54 were selected for full-text review and 6 studies met the inclusion criteria. Assessment of HRV using different standard time domain, frequency domain, and nonlinear domain approaches confirmed the presence of an impaired cardiac ANS function in frail compared to nonfrail participants. Furthermore, HR changes while performing a clinical test (e.g., the seated step test or the lying-to-standing orthostatic test) were decreased in the frail group compared to the nonfrail group. Conclusions: The current systematic review provides evidence that the cardiac ANS is impaired in frail compared to nonfrail older adults, as indicated by a reduction in the complexity of HR dynamics, reduced HRV, and reduced HR changes in response to daily activities. Four out of 6 included articles recruited only female participants, and in the other 2 articles the effect of gender on impairment of cardiac ANS was insufficiently investigated. Therefore, further studies are required to study the association between cardiac ANS impairments and frailty in males. Furthermore, HRV was studied only during static postures such as sitting, or without considering the level of activity as a potential confounder. Accordingly, simultaneous measurement of both physiological (i.e., HRV) and kinematic (e.g., using wearable sensor technology) information may provide a better understanding of cardiac ANS impairments with frailty while controlling for activity."
research-article	GER444752	Effects of Power Training on Mobility and Gait Biomechanics in Old Adults with Moderate Mobility Disability: Protocol and Design of the Potsdam Gait Study (POGS) Effects of Power Training on Mobility and Gait Biomechanics in Old Adults with Moderate Mobility Disability: Protocol and Design of the Potsdam Gait Study (POGS) Background: Walking speed decreases in old age. Even though old adults regularly participate in exercise interventions, we do not know how the intervention-induced changes in physical abilities produce faster walking. The Potsdam Gait Study (POGS) will examine the effects of 10 weeks of power training and detraining on leg muscle power and, for the first time, on complete gait biomechanics, including joint kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activation in old adults with moderate mobility disability. Methods/Design: POGS is a randomized controlled trial with two arms, each crossed over, without blinding. Arm 1 starts with a 10-week control period to assess the reliability of the tests and is then crossed over to complete 25-30 training sessions over 10 weeks. Arm 2 completes 25-30 exercise sessions over 10 weeks, followed by a 10-week follow-up (detraining) period. The exercise program is designed to improve lower extremity muscle power. Main outcome measures are: muscle power, gait speed, and gait biomechanics measured at baseline and after 10 weeks of training and 10 weeks of detraining. Discussion: It is expected that power training will increase leg muscle power measured by the weight lifted and by dynamometry, and these increased abilities become expressed in joint powers measured during gait. Such favorably modified powers will underlie the increase in step length, leading ultimately to a faster walking speed. POGS will increase our basic understanding of the biomechanical mechanisms of how power training improves gait speed in old adults with moderate levels of mobility disabilities.
systematic-review	GER444878	Evaluation Studies of Robotic Rollators by the User Perspective: A Systematic Review Evaluation Studies of Robotic Rollators by the User Perspective: A Systematic Review Background: Robotic rollators enhance the basic functions of established devices by technically advanced physical, cognitive, or sensory support to increase autonomy in persons with severe impairment. In the evaluation of such ambient assisted living solutions, both the technical and user perspectives are important to prove usability, effectiveness and safety, and to ensure adequate device application. Objective: The aim of this systematic review is to summarize the methodology of studies evaluating robotic rollators with focus on the user perspective and to give recommendations for future evaluation studies. Methods: A systematic literature search up to December 31, 2014, was conducted based on the Cochrane Review methodology using the electronic databases PubMed and IEEE Xplore. Articles were selected according to the following inclusion criteria: evaluation studies of robotic rollators documenting human-robot interaction, no case reports, published in English language. Results: Twenty-eight studies were identified that met the predefined inclusion criteria. Large heterogeneity in the definitions of the target user group, study populations, study designs and assessment methods was found across the included studies. No generic methodology to evaluate robotic rollators could be identified. We found major methodological shortcomings related to insufficient sample descriptions and sample sizes, and lack of appropriate, standardized and validated assessment methods. Long-term use in habitual environment was also not evaluated. Conclusions: Apart from the heterogeneity, methodological deficits in most of the identified studies became apparent. Recommendations for future evaluation studies include: clear definition of target user group, adequate selection of subjects, inclusion of other assistive mobility devices for comparison, evaluation of the habitual use of advanced prototypes, adequate assessment strategy with established, standardized and validated methods, and statistical analysis of study results. Assessment strategies may additionally focus on specific functionalities of the robotic rollators allowing an individually tailored assessment of innovative features to document their added value.
meta-analysis	GER445831	"The Impact of Mild Cognitive Impairment on Gait and Balance: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Studies Using Instrumented Assessment The Impact of Mild Cognitive Impairment on Gait and Balance: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Studies Using Instrumented Assessment Background: In addition to cognitive deficits, people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) can experience motor dysfunction, including deficits in gait and balance. Objective, instrumented motor performance assessment may allow the detection of subtle MCI-related motor deficits, allowing early diagnosis and intervention. Motor assessment under dual-task conditions may increase diagnostic accuracy; however, the sensitivity of different cognitive tasks is unclear. Objective: To systematically review the extant literature focusing on instrumented assessment of gait and balance parameters for discriminating MCI patients from cognitively intact peers. Methods: Database searches were conducted in PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO and Web of Science. Inclusion criteria were: (1) clinically confirmed MCI; (2) instrumented measurement of gait and/or balance; (3) English language, and (4) reporting gait or balance parameters which could be included in a meta-analysis for discriminating between MCI patients and cognitively intact individuals based on weighted effect size (d). Results: Fourteen studies met the inclusion criteria and reported quantitative gait (n = 11) or postural balance (n = 4) parameters to be included in the meta-analysis. The meta-analysis revealed that several gait parameters including velocity (d = -0.74, p &lt; 0.01), stride length (d = -0.65, p &lt; 0.01), and stride time (mean: d = 0.56, p = 0.02; coefficient of variation: d = 0.50, p &lt; 0.01) discriminated best between MCI and healthy controls under single-task conditions. Importantly, dual-task assessment increased the discriminative power of gait variables wherein gait variables with counting tasks appeared to be more sensitive (range d = 0.84-1.35) compared to verbal fluency tasks such as animal naming (range d = 0.65-0.94). Balance parameters identified as significant discriminators were anterior-posterior (d = 0.49, p &lt; 0.01) and mediolateral (d = -0.34, p = 0.04) sway position in the eyes-open condition but not eyes-closed condition. Conclusion: Existing studies provide evidence that MCI affects specific gait parameters. MCI-related gait changes were most pronounced when subjects are challenged cognitively (i.e., dual task), suggesting that gait assessment with an additional cognitive task is useful for diagnosis and outcome analysis in the target population. Static balance seems to also be affected by MCI, although limited evidence exists. Instrumented motor assessment could provide a critical opportunity for MCI diagnosis and tailored intervention targeting specific deficits and potentially slowing progression to dementia. Further studies are required to confirm our findings."
review-article	GER452972	Genome and Epigenome Editing in Mechanistic Studies of Human Aging and Aging-Related Disease Genome and Epigenome Editing in Mechanistic Studies of Human Aging and Aging-Related Disease The recent advent of genome and epigenome editing technologies has provided a new paradigm in which the landscape of the human genome and epigenome can be precisely manipulated in their native context. Genome and epigenome editing technologies can be applied to many aspects of aging research and offer the potential to develop novel therapeutics against age-related diseases. Here, we discuss the latest technological advances in the CRISPR-based genome and epigenome editing toolbox, and provide insight into how these synthetic biology tools could facilitate aging research by establishing in vitro cell and in vivo animal models to dissect genetic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying aging and age-related diseases. We discuss recent developments in the field with the aims to precisely modulate gene expression and dynamic epigenetic landscapes in a spatial and temporal manner in cellular and animal models, by complementing the CRISPR-based editing capability with conditional genetic manipulation tools including chemically inducible expression systems, optogenetics, logic gate genetic circuits, tissue-specific promoters, and the serotype-specific adeno-associated virus. We also discuss how the combined use of genome and epigenome editing tools permits investigators to uncover novel molecular pathways involved in the pathophysiology and etiology conferred by risk variants associated with aging and aging-related disease. A better understanding of the genetic and epigenetic regulatory mechanisms underlying human aging and age-related disease will significantly contribute to the developments of new therapeutic interventions for extending health span and life span, ultimately improving the quality of life in the elderly populations.
review-article	GER453357	Fragile and Enduring Positive Affect: Implications for Adaptive Aging Fragile and Enduring Positive Affect: Implications for Adaptive Aging There is robust evidence linking interindividual differences in positive affect (PA) with adaptive psychological and physical health outcomes. However, recent research has suggested that intraindividual variability or fluctuations in PA states over time may also be an important predictor of individual health outcomes. Here, we report on research that focuses on PA level and various forms of PA dynamics (variability, instability, inertia, and reactivity) in relation to health. PA level refers to the average level of positive feelings. In contrast, PA dynamics refer to short-term changes in PA that unfold over time. We discuss how consideration of both PA level and PA dynamics can provide a framework for reconciling when high PA is conducive or detrimental to health. We conclude that more work on PA dynamics is needed, especially in combination with PA level, and suggest productive questions for future inquiry in this area.
review-article	GER453579	Zika Virus Infection in the Elderly: Possible Relationship with Guillain-Barré Syndrome Zika Virus Infection in the Elderly: Possible Relationship with Guillain-Barré Syndrome The Zika virus (ZIKV) outbreak in French Polynesia, in 2013, and in Brazil, in 2015, was correlated with neurological complications, which comprised, among others, congenital microcephaly and Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), which includes a group of acute autoimmune neuropathies generally reported after respiratory or gastrointestinal infectious diseases. Despite being relatively rare, the incidence rate of GBS rises with age, which makes GBS more frequent in the elderly, in whom it is also a more severe disease with slower recovery than in younger patients. Different forms of GBS have been described having diagnostic confirmation of a previous infection with the ZIKV virus. Although we do not have enough evidence that elderly people are a particularly susceptible population to developing GBS following ZIKV infection, this is plausible. We should consider this possibility, particularly taking into account that aging subjects are more susceptible to infections. In this context, a deeper understanding of how the immune system in the elderly functions in relation to ZIKV infection is necessary, as well as an understanding of what kind of alterations of the nervous system such an infection triggers in the elderly, beyond GBS. This will be relevant for better therapeutic interventions and for designing vaccine candidates that can be applied in an aging population, particularly those prone to develop ZIKV-induced autoimmunity.
systematic-review	GER475558	Individual Characteristics and Physical Activity in Older Adults: A Systematic Review Individual Characteristics and Physical Activity in Older Adults: A Systematic Review Background: People aged 50 years and older are regularly identified as the most sedentary group in the population. However, even within this group, there are considerable interindividual variations in physical activity (PA) levels. They have been the subject of many studies. Based on single studies, no clear picture as to which characteristics are important has emerged. Objective: The goal of our contribution was to identify which individual characteristics are consistently linked to high PA levels in older adults. Methods: We conducted a systematic review of the literature considering demographic characteristics (gender, education, marital status, employment), health (subjective, health problems), and psychological factors (motivation, self-efficacy, locus of control). A systematic search of abstracts in the database Web of Science and a thorough screening process according to a priori specified criteria yielded 63 studies for inclusion in this review. Results: Two psychological factors - motivation and self-efficacy - and the perception of one's health seem to be consistently linked to higher PA levels in older adults. Selected demographic variables - gender and education - may be important for some types of PA. Conclusion: Our review suggests that differentiation of PA by domains is important for identifying and understanding which individual characteristics are associated with PA levels and how. Pinpointing what reliably distinguishes older adults who are active from those who are not is essential for designing effective interventions to promote PA in later life.
review-article	GER478091	"The Hayflick Limit and Age-Related Adaptive Immune Deficiency The Hayflick Limit and Age-Related Adaptive Immune Deficiency The adaptive immune system (AIS) acquires significant deficiency during chronological ageing, making older individuals more susceptible to infections and less responsive to vaccines compared to younger individuals. At the cellular level, one of the most striking features of this ageing-related immune deficiency is the dramatic loss of T-cell diversity that occurs in elderly humans. After the age of 70 years, there is a sharp decline in the diversity of naïve T cells, including a &gt;10-fold decrease in the CD4+ compartment and a &gt;100-fold decrease in the CD8+ compartment. Such changes are detrimental because the AIS relies on a diverse naïve T-cell pool to respond to novel pathogens. Recent work suggests that this collapse of naïve T-cell diversity results from T cells reaching the Hayflick limit and being eliminated through both antigen-dependent and -independent pathways. The progressive attrition of telomeres is the molecular mechanism that underlies this Hayflick limit. Therefore, we propose that by measuring the telomere lengths of T cells with high resolution, it is possible to develop a unique biomarker of immune deficiency, potentially much better correlated with individual susceptibility to diseases compared to chronological age alone."
review-article	GER479278	Regenerative Medicine Approaches for Age-Related Muscle Loss and Sarcopenia: A Mini-Review Regenerative Medicine Approaches for Age-Related Muscle Loss and Sarcopenia: A Mini-Review Sarcopenia is a complex and multifactorial disease that includes a decrease in the number, structure and physiology of muscle fibers, and age-related muscle mass loss, and is associated with loss of strength, increased frailty, and increased risk for fractures and falls. Treatment options are suboptimal and consist of exercise and nutrition as the cornerstone of therapy. Current treatment principles involve identification and modification of risk factors to prevent the disease, but these efforts are of limited value to the elderly individuals currently affected by sarcopenia. The development of new and effective therapies for sarcopenia is challenging. Potential therapies can target one or more of the proposed multiple etiologies such as the loss of regenerative capacity of muscle, age-related changes in the expression of signaling molecules such as growth hormone, IGF-1, myostatin, and other endocrine signaling molecules, and age-related changes in muscle physiology like denervation and mitochondrial dysfunction. The present paper reviews regenerative medicine strategies that seek to restore adequate skeletal muscle structure and function including exogenous delivery of cells and pharmacological therapies to induce myogenesis or reverse the physiologic changes that result in the disease. Approaches that modify the microenvironment to provide an environment conducive to reversal and mitigation of the disease represent a potential regenerative medicine approach that is discussed herein.
systematic-review	GER479965	"Feasibility and Effectiveness of Intervention Programmes Integrating Functional Exercise into Daily Life of Older Adults: A Systematic Review Feasibility and Effectiveness of Intervention Programmes Integrating Functional Exercise into Daily Life of Older Adults: A Systematic Review Background: Traditionally, exercise programmes for improving functional performance and reducing falls are organised as structured sessions. An alternative approach of integrating functional exercises into everyday tasks has emerged in recent years. Objectives: Summarising the current evidence for the feasibility and effectiveness of interventions integrating functional exercise into daily life. Methods: A systematic literature search was conducted including articles based on the following criteria: (1) individuals ≥60 years; (2) intervention studies of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and non-randomised studies (NRS); (3) using a lifestyle-integrated approach; (4) using functional exercises to improve strength, balance, or physical functioning; and (5) reporting outcomes on feasibility and/or effectiveness. Methodological quality of RCTs was evaluated using the PEDro scale. Results: Of 4,415 articles identified from 6 databases, 14 (6 RCTs) met the inclusion criteria. RCT quality was moderate to good. Intervention concepts included (1) the Lifestyle-integrated Functional Exercise (LiFE) programme integrating exercises into everyday activities and (2) combined programmes using integrated and structured training. Three RCTs evaluated LiFE in community dwellers and reported significantly improved balance, strength, and functional performance compared with controls receiving either no intervention, or low-intensity exercise, or structured exercise. Two of these RCTs reported a significant reduction in fall rate compared with controls receiving either no intervention or low-intensity exercise. Three RCTs compared combined programmes with usual care in institutionalised settings and reported improvements for some (balance, functional performance), but not all (strength, falls) outcomes. NRS showed behavioural change related to LiFE and feasibility in more impaired populations. One NRS comparing a combined home-based programme to a gym-based programme reported greater sustainability of effects in the combined programme. Conclusions: This review provides evidence for the effectiveness of integrated training for improving motor performances in older adults. Single studies suggest advantages of integrated compared with structured training. Combined programmes are positively evaluated in institutionalised settings, while little evidence exists in other populations. In summary, the approach of integrating functional exercise into daily life represents a promising alternative or complement to structured exercise programmes. However, more RCTs are needed to evaluate this concept in different target populations and the potential for inducing behavioural change."
meta-analysis	GER481454	"Effects of Wearable Sensor-Based Balance and Gait Training on Balance, Gait, and Functional Performance in Healthy and Patient Populations: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Effects of Wearable Sensor-Based Balance and Gait Training on Balance, Gait, and Functional Performance in Healthy and Patient Populations: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: Wearable sensors (WS) can accurately measure body motion and provide interactive feedback for supporting motor learning. Objective: This review aims to summarize current evidence for the effectiveness of WS training for improving balance, gait and functional performance. Methods: A systematic literature search was performed in PubMed, Cochrane, Web of Science, and CINAHL. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) using a WS exercise program were included. Study quality was examined by the PEDro scale. Meta-analyses were conducted to estimate the effects of WS balance training on the most frequently reported outcome parameters. Results: Eight RCTs were included (Parkinson n = 2, stroke n = 1, Parkinson/stroke n = 1, peripheral neuropathy n = 2, frail older adults n = 1, healthy older adults n = 1). The sample size ranged from n = 20 to 40. Three types of training paradigms were used: (1) static steady-state balance training, (2) dynamic steady-state balance training, which includes gait training, and (3) proactive balance training. RCTs either used one type of training paradigm (type 2: n = 1, type 3: n = 3) or combined different types of training paradigms within their intervention (type 1 and 2: n = 2; all types: n = 2). The meta-analyses revealed significant overall effects of WS training on static steady-state balance outcomes including mediolateral (eyes open: Hedges' g = 0.82, CI: 0.43-1.21; eyes closed: g = 0.57, CI: 0.14-0.99) and anterior-posterior sway (eyes open: g = 0.55, CI: 0.01-1.10; eyes closed: g = 0.44, CI: 0.02-0.86). No effects on habitual gait speed were found in the meta-analysis (g = -0.19, CI: -0.68 to 0.29). Two RCTs reported significant improvements for selected gait variables including single support time, and fast gait speed. One study identified effects on proactive balance (Alternate Step Test), but no effects were found for the Timed Up and Go test and the Berg Balance Scale. Two studies reported positive results on feasibility and usability. Only one study was performed in an unsupervised setting. Conclusion: This review provides evidence for a positive effect of WS training on static steady-state balance in studies with usual care controls and studies with conventional balance training controls. Specific gait parameters and proactive balance measures may also be improved by WS training, yet limited evidence is available. Heterogeneous training paradigms, small sample sizes, and short intervention durations limit the validity of our findings. Larger studies are required for estimating the true potential of WS technology."
review-article	GER494025	How to Measure Population Aging? The Answer Is Less than Obvious: A Review How to Measure Population Aging? The Answer Is Less than Obvious: A Review Usually, population aging is measured to inform fiscal and social planning because it is considered to indicate the burden that an elderly population presents to the economic, social security, and health systems of a society. Measures of population aging are expected to indicate shifts in the distribution of individuals’ attributes (e.g., chronological age, health) within a population that are relevant to assessing the burden. We claim that chronological age – even though it is the attribute most broadly used – may frequently not be the best measure to satisfy this purpose. A distribution of chronological age per se does not present a burden. Rather, burdens arise from the characteristics that supposedly or actually accompany chronological ages. We posit that in addition to chronological age, meaningful measures of population aging should reflect, for instance, the distribution of economic productivity, health, functional capacities, or biological age, as these attributes may more directly assess the burden on the socioeconomic and health systems. Here, we illustrate some limitations of measures of population aging based on each kind of measure, including chronological age, and review alternative measures that may better inform fiscal, social, and health planning.
systematic-review	GOI319497	Association between Clomiphene Citrate and Visual Disturbances with Special Emphasis on Central Retinal Vein Occlusion: A Review Association between Clomiphene Citrate and Visual Disturbances with Special Emphasis on Central Retinal Vein Occlusion: A Review Objectives: To determine whether clomiphene citrate (CC) can be implicated as a cause for central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and other visual disturbances. Methods: For this systematic review, we performed a search of the following databases: PubMed (1976 to November 2009), Medline Plus 2009, Cochrane Library (1996 to November 2009), Google and Google Scholar (1996 to November 2009). Thirty-five relevant titles (25 full papers and 10 abstracts) were identified and read by authors. No review has been published in the literature. The publications included describe adverse effects with clomid and selective estrogen receptor modulators and in particular visual disturbances. The population consisted of infertility patients under ovulation induction with CC. The main outcome measures were loss of vision due to CRVO and other visual changes. Results: CC may predispose to CRVO, but further trials are clearly needed in this area. Conclusion: Physicians should be aware of the potential risk of CC, especially in patients with associated risk factors for CRVO. If visual disturbances occur, therapy should be terminated and the patient referred for specialist ophthalmic care.
systematic-review	GOI342997	Early Abdominal Ectopic Pregnancies: A Systematic Review of the Literature Early Abdominal Ectopic Pregnancies: A Systematic Review of the Literature Objective: To define abdominal ectopic pregnancy outcomes by both location and treatment. Methods: Literature review of abdominal pregnancies from 1965 to August of 2009. Ectopic pregnancy exclusions were interstitial, tubal, cervical, ovarian, or those beyond 20 weeks at diagnosis/treatment. Results: There were 511 cases identified with 225 meeting the inclusion criteria. There were 7 maternal deaths (3.0%) with 18 (8%) of the early abdominal ectopic pregnancies occurring with an intrauterine device in place. Mean gestational age at the time of treatment was 10 weeks 0 days and mean maternal age was 29.7 years. The average blood loss associated with treatment was 1,450 ml. The top three sites of early abdominal ectopic pregnancies were pouches around the uterus (24.3%), serosal surface of the uterus and tubes (23.9%), and multiple sites (12.8%). Primary surgical management was performed in 208 cases (87.8%). Nonsurgical adjuvant or primary therapy included intramuscular methotrexate, intralesional methotrexate, intracardiac KCl, and artery embolization. Conclusion: Abdominal pregnancies should be considered in all patients until an intrauterine location can be confirmed. Understanding treatment options by pregnancy location may be helpful in the management of this potentially life-threatening condition.
systematic-review	GOI343036	"Laparoscopic Cervicoisthmic Cerclage: Technique and Systematic Review of the Literature Laparoscopic Cervicoisthmic Cerclage: Technique and Systematic Review of the Literature Background and Aims: To report on and review the outcome after laparoscopic cervicoisthmic cerclage (LCC) and robotic-assisted laparoscopic cervicoisthmic cerclage. Methods: We reported on 4 cases of LCC and conducted a systematic review of the literature up to May 2012 to identify obstetric outcomes after LCC and robotic-assisted LCC. Results: The median age of our series was 35 years (range: 31–41) with median previous pregnancies 3.5 (2–5). All 4 women had successful obstetric outcomes with a median gestational age at delivery of 37 weeks (range: 36–38). The systematic review identified 25 studies (162 women underwent LCC and 3 had robotic-assisted LCC). In the interval LLC studies, the median age was 33 years (range: 22–42); with a median gestational age at delivery of 37 weeks (range: 34–38). For prophylactic LCC, the median age was 31 years (range: 27–41); with a gestational age at delivery of 37 weeks (range: 19–39). Two of the three robotic-assisted LCC procedures were done prophylactically. The median age was 27 years (range: 23–37) with a median gestational age at delivery of 37 weeks (range: 35–38). Conclusion: LCC is feasible during and in between pregnancies as well as in congenitally malformed uteri. Current evidence suggests that LCC might be of benefit in selected cases of cervical insufficiency with short cervices."
research-article	GOI349893	"Effect of Caffeic Acid Phenethyl Ester on Intra-Abdominal Adhesion in Rats Effect of Caffeic Acid Phenethyl Ester on Intra-Abdominal Adhesion in Rats Background: To determine the impact of caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) on abdominal adhesion formation after laparotomy. Methods: Forty female rats were allocated into four distinct groups on which laparotomy alone; laparotomy with traumatization of the uterine horns; laparotomy, traumatization of the uterine horns and intraperitoneal irrigation with saline, and laparotomy, traumatization of the uterine horns and intraperitoneal irrigation with CAPE were performed. After sacrifying the animals on the 14th postoperative day, histopathological examination and biochemical analysis were conducted to evaluate the formation of abdominal adhesions and antioxidant status. Results: In the CAPE group, total adhesion scores were significantly lower than in the control and saline groups. The CAPE group displayed less inflammation, giant cell formation, fibrosis and fibroblastic activity than the control group. On the other hand, the control group displayed higher total adhesion scores. Conclusion: The results of this study indicate that the administration of CAPE may have beneficial effects for the prevention of abdominal adhesion formation after laparotomy. Further clinical studies are mandatory to explore the actual therapeutic potential of CAPE."
research-article	GOI350216	Solifenacin Succinate versus Percutaneous Tibial Nerve Stimulation in Women with Overactive Bladder Syndrome: Results of a Randomized Controlled Crossover Study Solifenacin Succinate versus Percutaneous Tibial Nerve Stimulation in Women with Overactive Bladder Syndrome: Results of a Randomized Controlled Crossover Study Aims: This study compared the effectiveness of solifenacin succinate (SS) versus percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) in women with overactive bladder syndrome (OABS). Methods: A randomized controlled crossover study of 40 women with OABS was performed. Patients were randomized into two groups. In group A, patients received SS and then PTNS. In group B, patients underwent PTNS and then SS. Voiding diaries, quality of life surveys and patient perception of intensity of urgency questionnaire were performed before and after each treatment. The global impression of improvement questionnaire was performed at the end of the study. Results: A reduction in the number of daily micturitions, episodes of nocturia and urge incontinence were found with both SS and PTNS in all groups, but PTNS showed a greater effectiveness than SS. There was an increase in voided volume in all groups with both SS and PTNS, but patients treated with PTNS had a greater increase. PTNS showed greater effectiveness in patient perception of urgency and quality of life. Conclusion: This study demonstrates the effectiveness of SS and PTNS In women with overactive bladder symptoms. However, greater improvements were found with PTNS.
systematic-review	GOI358392	The Patient-Centeredness of Endometriosis Care and Targets for Improvement: A Systematic Review The Patient-Centeredness of Endometriosis Care and Targets for Improvement: A Systematic Review Background: Endometriosis is a prevalent condition compromising physical and psychosocial health and thus requiring patient-centered care, which is guided by patients' values. This study aimed to find out what the patient's perspective on endometriosis care is and how the patient-centeredness of endometriosis care can be improved. Methods: Electronic databases were searched systematically, and study selection was based on eligibility and quality. Study methodology was examined. Specific care aspects valued by patients were organized according to 10 dimensions of patient-centered endometriosis care. Based on patients' assessments of service quality, patient-centered improvement targets and strengths were identified. Results: Twelve of 20 eligible studies had sufficient quality to be included. Endometriosis patients valued all 10 dimensions of patient-centered endometriosis care. Problematic service quality was reported for all dimensions but ‘coordination and integration' and ‘involvement of significant others'. Two patient-centered strengths and 29 patient-centered improvement targets were identified. The most frequently reported improvement targets on which studies agreed were ‘timely diagnosis' and ‘being believed and respected by staff'. Conclusion: Endometriosis patients value patient-centeredness in addition to effectiveness and safety of care, and its 10 dimensions require attention in clinical practice. Research into the assessment and improvement of patient-centered endometriosis care is required.
systematic-review	GOI364869	Interstitial Pregnancy: A ‘Road Map' of Surgical Treatment Based on a Systematic Review of the Literature Interstitial Pregnancy: A ‘Road Map' of Surgical Treatment Based on a Systematic Review of the Literature An electronic search concerning the surgical approach in cases of interstitial pregnancy from January 2000 to May 2013 has been carried out. Fifty three studies have been retrieved and included for statistical analysis. Conservative and radical surgical treatments in 354 cases of interstitial pregnancy are extensively described. Hemostatic techniques have been reported as well as clinical criteria for the medical approach. Surgical outcome in conservative versus radical treatment were similar. When hemostatic techniques were used, lower blood losses and lower operative times were recorded. Conversion to laparotomy involved difficulties in hemostasis and the presence of persistent or multiple adhesions. Laparoscopic injection of vasopressin into the myometrium below the cornual mass was the preferred approach.
research-article	GOI365569	"Expression of DJ-1 and mTOR in Eutopic and Ectopic Endometria of Patients with Endometriosis and Adenomyosis Expression of DJ-1 and mTOR in Eutopic and Ectopic Endometria of Patients with Endometriosis and Adenomyosis Objective: Endometrial cells may aberrantly express molecules involved in invasion and migration, leading to endometriosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of DJ-1 and phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR) in ectopic and eutopic endometria of endometriosis and adenomyosis. Methods: Endometrial specimens were obtained from healthy non-menopausal women (n = 17) or patients with ovarian endometriotic cysts (n = 48) or adenomyosis (n = 30) during January 2011 to June 2012. The expressions of DJ-1 and p-mTOR were evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting methods. Results: The expressions of DJ-1 and p-mTOR were significantly higher in the ectopic endometria than those in the eutopic endometria of endometriosis and adenomyosis patients or normal endometria (FDR &lt; 0.05). DJ-1 expression was positively correlated with the p-mTOR expression no matter at endometriosis (r = 0.736, FDR &lt; 0.001) or adenomyosis (r = 0.809, FDR &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: DJ-1 protein may be involved in endometrial cells proliferation, migration and angiogenesis by modulating the PI3K/Akt/p-mTOR signaling pathway, which provides an underlying theoretical target for endometriosis and adenomyosis."
research-article	GOI367655	Human Chorionic Gonadotropin Improves Endometriosis Through Downregulation of Leptin Expression in Rats Human Chorionic Gonadotropin Improves Endometriosis Through Downregulation of Leptin Expression in Rats Objective: To investigate whether and how human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) treatment ameliorates endometriosis in an endometriotic rat model. Methods: Twenty-four endometriosis rats were established and were randomly divided into four groups, and then the rats were treated with 19.4, 25.8, and 51.6 IU/100 g weight/day of HCG, respectively. The control group was treated with 0.9% NaCl. After 15 days (3 estrous cycles), the ectopic lesion volume and the expression of leptin protein in eutopic and ectopic endometrium were investigated. Results: After HCG treatment, the volumes of endometriotic lesions were significantly smaller than those before treatment. During endometriosis development, the expression of leptin protein in eutopic and ectopic endometrium was remarkably increased. HCG administration reversed leptin upregulation in endometriotic tissues. Conclusion: HCG therapy appears to be an effective treatment for endometriosis in rats through down-regulation of leptin expression in eutopic and ectopic endometrium.
systematic-review	GOI369390	Combined Oral Contraceptive for Treatment of Women with Uterine Fibroids and Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: A Systematic Review Combined Oral Contraceptive for Treatment of Women with Uterine Fibroids and Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: We aimed at assessing the efficacy of combined oral contraceptives (COC) in treating women with uterine leiomyomata and heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB), as well as their effect over quality of life (QoL), tumor size, and hemoglobin concentration. Methods: We searched various electronic databases and reference lists from all included studies. Randomized and nonrandomized controlled clinical trials were selected, and two trials were considered eligible - one randomized and one ‘pseudo'-randomized. Results: COCs performed less well than levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine systems (LNG-IUSs) in controlling HMB, improving QoL, and improving the hemoglobin concentration, whereas the estimate was not sufficiently precise to define whether COCs were better than, equal to, or worse than LNG-IUSs in reducing tumor size. It must be stressed that these results are based on low-quality evidence, stemming from a single trial. Additionally, COCs were more effective than placebo in tumor size reduction, another conclusion based on another single study, considered as being at a high risk of bias and judged as very low-quality evidence. Conclusion: Evidence regarding the use of COCs as treatment for women with symptomatic fibroids is very scarce and of low quality, and we are very uncertain about the real efficacy of such treatment.
research-article	GOI371759	"Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppository 1,200 mg versus Oral Fluconazole 150 mg in Treating Severe Vulvovaginal Candidiasis Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppository 1,200 mg versus Oral Fluconazole 150 mg in Treating Severe Vulvovaginal Candidiasis Aims: Miconazole is a synthetic imidazole antifungal that has a broad spectrum of activity against Candida albicans and non-albicans Candida species. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of miconazole nitrate vaginal suppository and oral fluconazole in treating severe vulvovaginal candidiasis (SVVC). Methods: In this prospective, randomized case control study, 577 cases of consecutive patients with SVVC were studied at the Gynecological Clinic of Peking University Shenzhen Hospital from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010. Patients with SVVC were treated with two doses of miconazole nitrate vaginal suppository 1,200 mg or two doses of fluconazole 150 mg. The patients were followed up for 7-14 and 30-35 days following the second dose of therapy. Results: The mycological cure rates of the patients on days 7-14 of follow-up were 75.9% (220/290) and 84.0% (241/287) in the miconazole and fluconazole groups, respectively (p &lt; 0.05). The mycological cure rates of the patients at the second follow-up were 64.8% (188/290) and 69.7% (200/287), respectively, in the two groups (p &gt; 0.05). Conclusion: The study demonstrated that two doses of miconazole nitrate vaginal suppository 1,200 mg were as effective as two doses of an oral fluconazole 150 mg regimen in the treatment of patients with SVVC."
research-article	GOI371762	"Preoperative Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio Has a Better Predictive Capacity in Diagnosing Tubo-Ovarian Abscess Preoperative Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio Has a Better Predictive Capacity in Diagnosing Tubo-Ovarian Abscess Background: The aim of this study is to identify the inflammatory markers which predict a tubo-ovarian abscess (TOA) in the most accurate way. Methods: This study involves 312 women. Preoperative inflammatory markers in the study group were compared with those in the healthy control group to identify the most efficient predictor of TOA with a high sensitivity and specificity. The recommended cutoff values of the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), white blood cell count, and red cell distribution width were determined using receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analyses. Results: The area under the curve (AUC = 0.99) in the ROC analysis was found to be statistically significant for NLR (p &lt; 0.001) with a cutoff value of ≥4.15 (95% CI 0.97-1.00, sensitivity 95.2%, specificity 99.4%). The positive predictive value of NLR was 99.2%, and the negative predictive value was 96.7% (p &lt; 0.001). The recommended threshold for PLR was found to be 164.37 (AUC = 0.95, 95% CI 0.93-0.98, sensitivity 86.7%, specificity 92%), and the cutoff point of the white blood cell count in the ROC analysis was 9.55 × 103/μl (AUC = 0.90, 95% CI 0.87-0.95, sensitivity 78.68%, specificity 96.68%). Conclusion: Preoperative NLR and PLR improve the predictive value of serum markers for the presence of TOA."
research-article	GOI373889	"Is There Any Relationship between Plasma Pentraxin 3 Levels and Gestational Diabetes Mellitus? Is There Any Relationship between Plasma Pentraxin 3 Levels and Gestational Diabetes Mellitus? Background: Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) is a novel vascular inflammatory marker which increases in vascular events such as diabetes mellitus. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between serum PTX3 levels and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). Methods: This prospective observational study was comprised of 88 pregnant women with singleton pregnancies. The subjects were classified into 3 groups according to their response to a 50-gram glucose challenge test (GCT) and a 100-gram oral glucose tolerance test: control group (n = 28), impaired glucose tolerance group (n = 30), and GDM group (n = 30). Serum PTX3 levels were measured to examine the relationship between GDM and GCT values. Results: Significant differences in PTX3 levels were observed among the 3 groups in the sample (F = 7.598; p = 0.001). The mean PTX3 value was found to be significantly higher in the GDM group (3.17 ± 1.16 ng/ml) than in the control group (2.20 ± 0.83 ng/ml; p = 0.001). A significant positive correlation between PTX3 and GCT values was detected (r = 0.289; p = 0.008). Conclusion: Maternal serum PTX3 levels were found to be significantly related to high blood glucose levels. This may be an indicator of vascular pathology in GDM around the time of an oral glucose tolerance test."
meta-analysis	GOI376577	"Intravenous Iron Sucrose versus Oral Iron in the Treatment of Pregnancy with Iron Deficiency Anaemia: A Systematic Review Intravenous Iron Sucrose versus Oral Iron in the Treatment of Pregnancy with Iron Deficiency Anaemia: A Systematic Review Background: Intravenous iron sucrose and oral iron therapy are the main therapies for iron deficiency anaemia (IDA), but there is still a debate regarding their efficacy and especially as to which one is the best choice during pregnancy. Methods: A meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials comparing patients treated with intravenous iron sucrose (intravenous group) with those treated with oral iron (oral group) for IDA during pregnancy was performed. The primary outcomes of interest were mean maternal haemoglobin and serum ferritin levels at the end of treatment. Secondary outcomes were treatment-related adverse events and foetal birth weight. Results: Six randomised controlled trials, involving a total of 576 women, were included in the present review. Significant increases in haemoglobin [mean difference (MD), 0.85; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.31-1.39; p = 0.002] and ferritin levels (MD, 63.32; 95% CI, 39.46-87.18; p &lt; 0.00001) were observed in the intravenous group. Compared with the oral group, there were fewer adverse events in the intravenous group (risk ratio, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.34-0.73; p = 0.0003). There was no significant difference in birth weight between the two groups. Conclusion: For pregnant women who could not tolerate the side effects of oral treatment or required a rapid replacement of iron stores, intravenous iron sucrose was associated with fewer adverse events and was more effective than regular oral iron therapy."
meta-analysis	GOI431226	"Is Mechanical Bowel Preparation Necessary for Gynecologic Surgery? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Is Mechanical Bowel Preparation Necessary for Gynecologic Surgery? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: To clarify the efficacy and side effects of mechanical bowel preparation (MBP) before gynecologic surgery. Methods: A systematic review was conducted. Embase, PubMed, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials in the Cochrane Library and China National Knowledge Infrastructure were searched. Randomized controlled trials on MBP prior to gynecologic surgery were included. The software package Revman 5.3 was used for statistical analysis. Odds ratio (OR) and standard mean deviation were calculated for dichotomous and continuous variable, respectively. Results: The quality of the included studies was moderate to good. MBP prior to laparoscopic gynecologic benign surgery or vaginal prolapse surgery has not been proven to be valuable for surgical performance, mainly involving visualization of the surgical field (OR 1.52, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1 to 2.32; Z = 1.95, p = 0.05), bowel handling (OR 2.21, 95% CI 0.83 to 5.84; Z = 1.59, p = 0.11), surgical complications (OR 1.3, 95% CI 0.46 to 3.67; Z = 0.5, p = 0.62) and bowel preparation. The discomfort due to oral catharsis is severer than no bowel preparation and enema, however without any difference between enema and no bowel preparation. Conclusion: The routine practice of MBP before gynecologic surgery needs to be reconsidered. This traditional clinical behavior has to be abandoned before benign laparoscopic surgery. Studies on the role of MBP for gynecologic laparotomy and gynecologic cancer are urgent."
meta-analysis	GOI433434	"Predictive Value of Free β-hCG Multiple of the Median for Women with Preeclampsia Predictive Value of Free β-hCG Multiple of the Median for Women with Preeclampsia Background: Preeclampsia (PE) is relatively common and is unpredictable in its onset and progression. Aims: We investigated the clinical value of using the multiple of the median (MoM) of free β-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG) concentrations in women with normal pregnancy and PE. Methods: This study was based on a dataset available from published studies, and the relevant studies were retrieved from multiple electronic databases. Data were extracted from case-control studies; a random-effects model was employed, and standardized mean difference and 95% confidence intervals were calculated. Twelve case-control studies (eleven English-based articles and one Chinese-based article) were analyzed in the current meta-analysis and included 702 patients with PE and 8,233 women with normal pregnancies. Results: Statistical analysis revealed a higher MoM of β-hCG serum levels in patients with PE. Ethnicity subgroup analysis showed that the MoM of serum β-hCG levels was significantly higher in women with PE in both Asian and Caucasian populations. Conclusion: The MoM of β-hCG serum levels was significantly increased in women with PE compared to women with normal pregnancies. Screening for serum β-hCG MoM levels will be helpful in the early identification of pregnancies at risk of developing PE."
meta-analysis	GOI433598	Standardized Uptake Value on 18F-FDG PET/CT as a Prognostic Factor for Survival of Women with Malignant Uterine Tumors: A Meta-Analysis Standardized Uptake Value on 18F-FDG PET/CT as a Prognostic Factor for Survival of Women with Malignant Uterine Tumors: A Meta-Analysis Background: Malignant uterine tumors are crucial in the evaluation of prognosis and the determination of therapeutic strategy. Aim: This meta-analysis of the available literature aimed to investigate the prognostic value of standardized uptake value (SUV) on fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography with computed tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT) in uterine malignancies before treatment. Methods: The PubMed, MEDLINE and EMBASE databases (1990 to February 2014) were searched to identify studies evaluating SUV on 18F-FDG PET/CT as a prognostic tool for predicting long-term survival in patients with carcinomas of the uterus. The &
research-article	GOI443640	Use of TachoSil® to Prevent Symptomatic Lymphocele after an Aggressive Tumor Debulking with Lymphadenectomy for Advanced Stage Ovarian Cancer. A Pilot Study Use of TachoSil® to Prevent Symptomatic Lymphocele after an Aggressive Tumor Debulking with Lymphadenectomy for Advanced Stage Ovarian Cancer. A Pilot Study Objective: To describe the incidence of symptomatic lymphocele (SLC) after an aggressive tumor debulking surgery and lymphadenectomy in patients with ovarian cancer and peritoneal carcinomatosis with or without TachoSil®. Material and Methods: A pilot retrospective comparative observational study was performed between patients with advanced ovarian cancer International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stages III-IV who underwent complete debulking surgery and radical retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy. In 18 patients, 4 TachoSil® patches were placed in the retroperitoneal area, since January 2014-October 2014. This group was compared with other 18 consecutive patients matched by age, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage, surgical complexity, American Society of Anesthesiologists score, comorbidity, and BMI without the use of TachoSil®. Results: Baseline characteristics were similar between groups. There were no statistically significant differences in terms of surgical complexity, surgical time, estimated blood loss, node removed, length of hospital stay, and complications between groups. SLC was diagnosed in 7 patients (38.8%) without TachoSil®, and in 2 patients (11.1%) with TachoSil® (p = 0.121). The use of TachoSil® was associated with a statistically significant lower re-admission rate (p = 0.041) and with a significantly shorter time to adjuvant chemotherapy (p = 0.02). Conclusions: Using TachoSil® in women with advanced stage ovarian cancer who underwent radical debulking with retroperitoneal lymph node dissection is associated with a non-statistically significant reduction in the incidence of SLC. A larger-scale randomized controlled study should be conducted to confirm our preliminary results.
meta-analysis	GOI443955	"Three-Dimensional Hysterosalpingo-Contrast-Sonography for the Assessment of Tubal Patency in Women with Infertility: A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis Three-Dimensional Hysterosalpingo-Contrast-Sonography for the Assessment of Tubal Patency in Women with Infertility: A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: We aimed at performing a systematic review to determine the diagnostic accuracy of three-dimensional (3D) hysterosalpingo-contrast-sonography (HyCoSy) for detecting tubal occlusion. Methods: A systematic review in Medline database search from January 1989 to October 2015 to identify relevant studies evaluating 3D-HyCoSy. Eligibility criteria were studies assessing the role of 3D-HyCoSy for diagnosing tubal occlusion in infertile women. Index test was 3D-HyCoSy. Reference standard was laparoscopy with dye test or X-ray hysterosalpingography. Quality was assessed using Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines and Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2 tool. Pooled sensitivity and specificity for the method were estimated. Results: A total number of 88 papers were identified. After exclusions, nine studies were ultimately included. Pooled estimated sensitivity was 98% (95% CI 91-100) with a moderate heterogeneity (I2: 64.8%, 95% CI 39.6-89.9; and Cochran Q 22.7, p &lt; 0.001). Pooled estimated specificity was 90% (95% CI 83-95) with significant heterogeneity (I2: 80.3%, 95% CI 68.1-92.5; and Cochran Q 40.6, p &lt; 0.001). Positive likelihood ratio was 10.3 (95% CI 5.6-18.7) and negative likelihood ratio was 0.02 (95% CI 0.00-0.21). Conclusion: 3D-HyCoSy is an accurate test for diagnosing tubal occlusion in women with infertility."
research-article	GOI445291	Clinical Outcomes after Selective Fetal Reduction of Complicated Monochorionic Twins with Radiofrequency Ablation and Bipolar Cord Coagulation Clinical Outcomes after Selective Fetal Reduction of Complicated Monochorionic Twins with Radiofrequency Ablation and Bipolar Cord Coagulation Aims: To review pregnancy outcomes, complication rates and neonatal neural development of selective termination procedures for complicated monochorionic (MC) twins. Methods: This was a retrospective review of the pregnancies that underwent selective reduction with radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and bipolar cord coagulation (BCC) in our institution. Results: Forty-eight cases underwent selective reduction with BCC and the remaining 45 with RFA. Overall survival was not statistically different between the RFA and BCC groups (71.1 and 62.5%, p = 0.379). With regard to the indications, the survival rates were not significantly different for twin to twin transfusion syndrome, twin reversed arterial perfusion, discordant anomalies and selective intrauterine growth restriction. Preterm premature rupture of membrane was not statistically different between the BCC and RFA groups (47.9 and 33.3%, p = 0.153). Five foetuses presented with abnormal middle cerebral artery-peak systolic velocity in the BCC group and 4 in the RFA group (p = 0.829). In the BCC group, neurological injury was detected in 2 neonates, presenting with cerebral dysplasia on MR scanning. In the RFA group, intracranial haemorrhage Grade III was detected in one neonate with cranial ultrasound (p = 0.607). Conclusions: Overall survival and complication rates following selective reduction in complicated MC twin pregnancies is similar irrespective of whether the reduction was performed using RFA or BCC. Key Message: It seems that selective reduction in MC pregnancies with RFA does not carry a significant decrease in the overall survival and complication rates than the cases with BCC. According to our data, neurodevelopmental impairment of the co-twins is relatively seldom after selective reduction.
systematic-review	GOI446954	"Primary Retroperitoneal Cystoadenocarcinoma: A Systematic Review Primary Retroperitoneal Cystoadenocarcinoma: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review on primary retroperitoneal cystoadenocarcinoma (PRC), which is an extremely rare disease. Methods: According to PRISMA guidelines, all the literature about PRC from 1977 to 2015 was reviewed. Thirty articles were selected; characteristics of the patients were collected and described; time to recurrence and overall survival (OS) were investigated when available. Results: Thirty seven patients were included of whom 33 were females; the median age at presentation was 43. PRC was more common in postmenopausal women. Surgery was the standard therapy; the role of chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy was uncertain. Thirty percent of the patients relapsed after 58 months from the surgery; the rupture of the cyst occurred in 13% of the cases and it was associated with poor prognosis as well as premenopausal status. At 125 months from the diagnosis, 72% of the patients were alive and the median OS was not reached. Conclusions: The present systematic review about PRC is the first performed until the date of drafting this paper. We described some clinical features of PRC and their possible prognostic value. No conclusive data can be presented due to the small population analyzed and to publication bias."
meta-analysis	GOI448142	"Association between X-Ray Repair Cross-Complementing Group 1 Arg399Gln Polymorphism and Cervical Cancer Risk: A Meta-Analysis in the Chinese Population Association between X-Ray Repair Cross-Complementing Group 1 Arg399Gln Polymorphism and Cervical Cancer Risk: A Meta-Analysis in the Chinese Population Background: Many studies have examined the association of X-ray repair cross-complementing group 1 (XRCC1) Arg399Gln polymorphism with cervical cancer susceptibility. However, the results of these studies are inconsistent. To further assess the effects of XRCC1 Arg399Gln polymorphism on the risk of cervical cancer in the Chinese population, a meta-analysis was performed. Methods: Relevant studies were identified using PubMed, Springer Link, Ovid, Chinese Wanfang Data Knowledge Service Platform, Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure, and Chinese Biology Medicine through December 2015. Pooled ORs and 95% CIs were used to assess the strength of the associations. Results: This meta-analysis identified 7 studies, including 1,589 cases and 2,235 controls. In the total analyses, a significantly elevated risk of cervical cancer was associated with variants of XRCC1 Arg399Gln (GA vs. GG: OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.13-1.49; AA + GA vs. GG: OR 1.27, 95% CI 1.02-1.58). In the subgroup analyses stratified by geographic areas and histopathology type, it revealed the significant result in South China. Conclusions: This meta-analysis showed that the XRCC1 Arg399Gln GA variant might be risk alleles for cervical cancer susceptibility in the Chinese population, and further studies in other ethnic groups are required to arrive at definite conclusions."
case-report	GOI449158	"Paget's Disease of the Vulva Treated with Imiquimod: Case Report and Systematic Review of the Literature Paget's Disease of the Vulva Treated with Imiquimod: Case Report and Systematic Review of the Literature Background: Extramammary Paget's disease of the vulva (EPDV) is a rare adenocarcinoma in situ of the vulvar skin and is often resected with involved margins due to its reticular growth pattern. Adjuvant treatment with the immunomodulator imiquimod may be suitable to avoid repeated and mutilating surgery. Case Presentation: We present the case of a 73-year-old woman with EPDV, initially treated with surgical resection and re-resection for involved margins. Final histology revealed Paget's disease of the left vulva with 8 cm in the largest diameter and again involved margins. Subsequently, topical therapy with imiquimod 5% cream twice weekly was applied for 3 months. Vulvoscopy and local biopsies confirmed complete remission (CR). Based on a literature search using PubMed and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, 21 reports on the therapeutic efficacy of imiquimod in 70 women with EPDV have been published. Pooled rates of CR and partial remission were 71% (50/70) and 16% (11/70), respectively. There were 4 cases of disease progression under imiquimod and the therapy was generally well tolerated with mild to moderate local reactions in &gt;50% of cases. Conclusion: EPDV is a rare genital neoplasia and may be successfully treated with the topical immunomodulator imiquimod. Specifically, adjuvant imiquimod is a feasible and efficacious treatment option for women with involved resection margins after surgery."
case-report	GOI449384	Two Cases of True Uterine Artery Aneurysms Diagnosed during Pregnancy Two Cases of True Uterine Artery Aneurysms Diagnosed during Pregnancy We report 2 cases of true uterine artery aneurysms diagnosed during pregnancy. Both cases presented with nonspecific symptoms such as urethral obstruction, minimal vaginal bleeding and lower abdominal pain in the 2nd trimester. Both aneurysms were diagnosed by color Doppler ultrasound. In the first case labor was induced at 37 + 4 weeks of gestation. However, due to sudden fetal distress and maternal abdominal pain, an emergency Caesarean section was performed during labor, and 3 liters of intra-peritoneal blood were encountered upon laparotomy, secondary to a ruptured uterine artery aneurysm. In the second case, an elective Caesarean section was scheduled at 38 + 3 weeks of gestation, and the delivery and postpartum period were uncomplicated. Albeit a rare condition, a uterine artery aneurysm should be among the differential diagnosis considered in pregnant women who present with pelvic and vaginal masses, vague bladder symptoms or radiating pelvic pain. The diagnosis is readily made by color Doppler imaging. Elective Caesarean section should be the preferred mode of delivery to avoid rupture of the aneurysm during labor.
systematic-review	GOI452098	"Detecting Endometriosis in Adolescents: Why Not Start from Self-Report Screening Questionnaires for Adult Women? Detecting Endometriosis in Adolescents: Why Not Start from Self-Report Screening Questionnaires for Adult Women? Background: Endometriosis in adolescent girls is often diagnosed after a long delay. This diagnostic delay can be associated with more advanced stages of endometriosis and with a higher likelihood of fertility problems at a later age. Material and Methods: A systematic review of literature and quality assessment was performed in order to identify questionnaires that were developed to identify adult women with endometriosis. Based on these questionnaires, specific questions that had been reported to be predictive for endometriosis were selected and included in a newly composed questionnaire with the aim to identify adolescents at risk of developing endometriosis. Results: Based on the literature, we identified 5 questionnaires developed to identify adult women with endometriosis; this questionnaire contained 6 questions that had been reported to be predictive for adult endometriosis. These questions query age of menarche, cycle duration, dysmenorrhea, pain descriptors, dyschezia and urinary symptoms and were combined into a new self-report questionnaire aimed to identify adolescents at risk to develop endometriosis. Conclusion: We developed a self-report questionnaire aimed to identify adolescents at risk to develop endometriosis based on questions from self-report questionnaires that have been reported to identify adult women with endometriosis."
meta-analysis	GOI456006	"A Comprehensive Comparison of CT, MRI, Positron Emission Tomography or Positron Emission Tomography/CT, and Diffusion Weighted Imaging-MRI for Detecting the Lymph Nodes Metastases in Patients with Cervical Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Based on 67 Studies A Comprehensive Comparison of CT, MRI, Positron Emission Tomography or Positron Emission Tomography/CT, and Diffusion Weighted Imaging-MRI for Detecting the Lymph Nodes Metastases in Patients with Cervical Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Based on 67 Studies Object: In recent times, many published papers reported the diagnostic performance of CT, MRI, positron emission tomography (PET) using 2-[18F] fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) for detecting the lymph nodes (LNs) metastases in patients with cervical cancer. This study is aimed at assessing and comparing the diagnostic value of those non-invasive modalities in detecting the LNs metastases in cervical cancer patients. Methods: Studies on the non-invasive modalities for the detection of metastatic LNs were searched in PubMed, Medline, Web of Science, Cochrane Library and Embase databases. Pooled positive likelihood ratios and negative likelihood ratios, diagnostic OR, area under curve (AUC), summary receiver operating characteristics were calculated as evaluation indices. Results: In region- or node-based analysis, the AUC of DWI-MRI (0.92) and PET or PET/CT (0.90) were better than CT (0.83), and the difference was significant (DWI-MRI vs. CT: Z = 4.61, p &lt; 0.001; PET or PET/CT vs. CT: Z = 3.61, p = 0.001). Conclusion: Among the 4 non-invasive modalities, the PET or PET/CT has the highest specificity, and DWI-MRI has the highest sensitivity."
meta-analysis	GOI464352	"New Concept of X-Ray Repair Cross-Complementing Groups 1 Polymorphisms and Gynecologic Cancer Risk New Concept of X-Ray Repair Cross-Complementing Groups 1 Polymorphisms and Gynecologic Cancer Risk Background: Several meta-analyses have been conducted to examine the possible link between X-ray repair cross-complementing groups 1 (XRCC1) Arg399Gln polymorphism and cervical cancer risk. However, the results are controversial. Therefore, we carried out a more comprehensive meta-analysis to examine whether XRCC1 polymorphisms are associated with general gynecologic cancer risk. Methods: Twenty studies, comprising 4,230 cases and 5,458 controls that included analyses of XRCC1 polymorphisms (Arg194Trp, Arg280His, or Arg399Gln) were included in our study. Results: Overall, no significant association between any of the studied XRCC1 polymorphisms and gynecologic cancer risk was observed. However, in further stratified analyses, the Arg399Gln was definitely associated with increased gynecologic cancer risk in Asians (A vs. G: OR 1.24; 95% CI 1.02-1.53), which was also associated with increased cervical cancer risk (A vs. G: OR 1.20; 95% CI 1.00-1.44). Similarly, the Arg194Trp was significantly associated with increased gynecologic cancer risk in Asians (TT vs. CC: OR 1.87; 95% CI 1.02-3.42) and endometrial cancer (T vs. C: OR 1.45; 95% CI 1.05-2.02). Conclusions: These findings provided evidence that XRCC1 Arg399Gln and Arg194Trp variants may modify the susceptibility to gynecologic cancers based on ethnicity and type. Further studies with large sample size are warranted to extend our findings."
systematic-review	GOI471764	Low Back Pain in Pregnancy: Investigations, Management, and Role of Neuraxial Analgesia and Anaesthesia: A Systematic Review Low Back Pain in Pregnancy: Investigations, Management, and Role of Neuraxial Analgesia and Anaesthesia: A Systematic Review Background: Low back pain (LBP) is commonly experienced during pregnancy and is often poorly managed. There is much ambiguity in diagnostic work-up, appropriate management and decision-making regarding the use of neuraxial analgesia and anaesthesia during labour and delivery in these patients. This systematic review summarises the evidence regarding investigations, management strategies and considerations around performing neuraxial blocks for pregnant women with LBP. Methods: We searched 3 databases and reviewed literature concerning LBP in pregnancy with regards to diagnostic modalities, management strategies and use of neuraxial techniques for facilitating labour and delivery. Results: In all, we included 78 studies in this review, with 32 studies concerning diagnostic investigations, 56 studies involving management strategies, and 4 studies regarding the use of neuraxial techniques for labour and delivery. Summary: MRI is the safest investigative modality for LBP in pregnancy. Antenatal educational programmes, exercise and steroid injections into the epidural space or sacroiliac joints may help with pain management. Worsening neurological deficits, vertebral fractures and tumours may need surgical management. There is limited evidence on challenges of performing neuraxial blocks in the peripartum period for analgesia and anaesthesia, but there is a potential for increased risk of neurological complications in parturients with pre-existing neurological deficits.
meta-analysis	GOI485618	"Platinum-Based Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy versus Primary Surgery in Ovarian Carcinoma International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics Stages IIIc and IV: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Platinum-Based Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy versus Primary Surgery in Ovarian Carcinoma International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics Stages IIIc and IV: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aim: This study aimed to compare neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) followed by interval debulking surgery (IDS) with primary debulking surgery (PDS) followed by chemotherapy in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stages IIIc and IV. Methods: PubMed, the Cochrane Library, and manual searches were applied to discriminate potentially eligible studies published before June 30, 2016. Results: A total of 12 comparative studies were finally included; 1,372 patients underwent NAC followed by IDS, and 2,680 patients underwent PDS followed by chemotherapy. For overall pooled estimates, significant between-trial differences were found in the optimal debulking rate, grade 3–5 postoperative adverse reactions, and median overall survival (OS), but no difference was found in the median progression-free survival (PFS). Moreover, a significantly higher incidence was identified in major infections, vascular events, and wound complications for patients in the PDS group. Conclusions: This study suggested that NAC followed by IDS could improve the optimal debulking rate and decrease the postoperative adverse reactions for the current studies, but whether it could improve the OS and PFS compared with PDS followed by chemotherapy in patients with ovarian carcinoma FIGO stages IIIc and IV were still needed to be verified by conducting more randomized controlled trials."
meta-analysis	GOI485619	Subclinical Hypothyroidism Impact on the Characteristics of Patients with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome. A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Subclinical Hypothyroidism Impact on the Characteristics of Patients with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome. A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background/Aims: Definitive polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) diagnosis should exclude thyroid dysfunctions. The purpose of the study is to examine the impact of subclinical hypothyroidism on the characteristics of PCOS patients. Methods: A meta-analysis of the published observational studies was conducted. Medline, Scopus, and Cochrane database search was performed to identify the studies that compared euthyroid PCOS and subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH)-PCOS patients. A total of 9 studies were selected, totalizing the inclusion of 1,537 euthyroid PCOS and 301 SCH-PCOS. The data were expressed as raw mean difference and standard error, using the random-effects model. Heterogeneity among studies was examined using the Cochran’s test (Q) and I2 statistics. Results: Anthropometrical parameters were similar in both groups. Total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) were higher in SCH-PCOS (p = 0.036 and p = 0.012). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol was lower in the SCH-PCOS group (p = 0.018). Fasting glucose was lower in euthyroid PCOS (p = 0.022). All androgen levels were similar in both group (p &
meta-analysis	GOI487944	Conventional versus Single Port Laparoscopy for the Surgical Treatment of Ectopic Pregnancy: A Meta-Analysis Conventional versus Single Port Laparoscopy for the Surgical Treatment of Ectopic Pregnancy: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: A new minimally invasive laparoscopic approach for ectopic pregnancy, the laparo-endoscopic single site surgery (LESS), has recently been introduced. The aim of this study is to compare the surgical outcome of this approach with conventional laparoscopy for ectopic pregnancy. Method: A review following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses statement was performed. Electronic databases PubMed, MEDLINE, and Scopus were searched in December 2017 by searching the terms “single port laparoscopy” or “laparoendoscopic single site-surgery” or “single site laparoscopy” or “single-incision laparoscopic surgery” and “ectopic pregnancy.” Studies comparing the 2 techniques and reporting surgical outcome were selected. Endpoints included comparison of length of operative time (OT), hemoglobin drop, length of hospitalization, number of patients requiring packed red blood cells (PRBC) transfusion, intra- and post-operative complication rates between patients undergoing conventional laparoscopy and those undergoing LESS. Results: A total of 56 studies were retrieved of which 5 studies including 460 patients met selection criteria. No differences were found between conventional laparoscopy and LESS with regards to length of OT time (even after stratification for presence of hemoperitoneum and/or adhesions), length of hospitalization, mean hemoglobin drop, number of patients requiring transfusions of PRBC, and intra- and post-operative complications. Conclusion: The management of ectopic pregnancies with LESS does not seem to be superior to conventional laparoscopy.
case-report	GOI493266	Colposcopy in Evaluating Bleeding During the Second and Third Trimesters: Short-Term and Postpartum Implications Colposcopy in Evaluating Bleeding During the Second and Third Trimesters: Short-Term and Postpartum Implications Background: The etiology of vaginal bleeding during pregnancy may be obstetric or non-obstetric. Though colposcopy is generally not part of the routine evaluation of 2nd- or 3rd-trimester vaginal bleeding without obvious obstetrical cause, our department does perform colposcopy and cervical cytology testing in these patients. This study assessed the need and possible contribution of colposcopy in diagnosing the etiology of 2nd- and 3rd-trimester bleeding. Methods: Retrospective analysis of colposcopy findings from 2012–2015 in patients with 2nd- or 3rd-trimester bleeding where an obstetrical cause was not found. Data collected included demographics, obstetric data, bleeding characteristics, colposcopy results, cervical cytology testing, a sonogram directed at the placenta, and birth details. Results: Of the 168 patients who underwent colposcopy, 29 (17.3%) complained of postcoital bleeding (PCB). The following were the colposcopy results: 5 (3%) had abnormal colposcopy findings, 14 (8.3%) ectropion, 4 (2.4%) polyps, and 1 (0.6%) vaginal varices. Postpartum follow-up of women with PCB or pathologic cervical cytology testing diagnosed 1(0.6%) patient with high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 2–3, human papillomavirus 18 and 45 positive. Conclusions: Colposcopy diagnosed the origin of bleeding in 24 cases (13.7%). These findings support the use of colposcopy in evaluating vaginal bleeding of undetermined obstetric origin during pregnancy.
review-article	HDE288208	Developing Moral Agency through Narrative Developing Moral Agency through Narrative This paper poses the following question: When, in spite of knowing that it is wrong, people go on to hurt others, what does this mean for the development of moral agency? We begin by defining moral agency and briefly sketching relations between moral agency and other concepts. We then outline what three extant literatures suggest about this question: social domain theory, moral intuitionist theories, and theories of moral identity development. Building on these literatures, but moving beyond them, we propose that experiences of harming others are catalysts for the development of what we term moral agency. In the remainder of the paper, we outline a model for how moral agency develops that draws on research about the narrative development of self. We close by outlining some of the critical directions for future work that are suggested by our approach.
systematic-review	HDE446670	With or Beyond Piaget? A Dialogue between New Probabilistic Models of Learning and the Theories of Jean Piaget With or Beyond Piaget? A Dialogue between New Probabilistic Models of Learning and the Theories of Jean Piaget For more than 10 years, we have seen the emergence of new “probabilistic” models of learning. They clearly echo Jean Piaget's works and theories but they also claim to go further. However, references to Piaget are often quick and rarely take the time to explore the rich heritage of the Genevan's works. This article takes a closer look at their links through a systematic review of the literature. To do so, I selected, read, and compared articles and books about the probabilistic models of learning and the works of Jean Piaget dealing with similar questions. I will first present the theoretical evolutions offered by the probabilistic models of learning. Then, I will reexamine the words and works of Jean Piaget to show how he had in fact formulated and addressed similar questions at his time, from his point of view. I will finally discuss how we could question, today, Jean Piaget's works in regard to these new models, but also how these new models could be discussed with regard to Piagetian works.
case-report	HDE448229	The Development of Ethical Civic Actors in Divided Societies: A Longitudinal Case The Development of Ethical Civic Actors in Divided Societies: A Longitudinal Case This 4-year case study of the development of Gabriela, as civic actor during secondary school, comes from a cross-national study of civic development in divided societies. Her case contributes to developmental theory and adds to civics research by exploring how school, family, and community are intertwined with civic development. Gabriela's ethical civic development is both remarkable and uneven. She overcomes seemingly insurmountable struggles to project her voice in the world. Her story shows the critical nature of intertwined support from her school and family to make this growth possible. Her remaining struggle - to acknowledge the needs of those from other societal groups in relation to her community's substantial needs - shows the complexity of satisfying multiple groups' needs at once in divided societies. We conclude with the addition of the concept of “macrosupports” and “microsupports” to explain how the school, other institutions, and the student grow reciprocally.
review-article	HDE492801	New Beginnings: An Interactionist and Constructivist Approach to Early Moral Development New Beginnings: An Interactionist and Constructivist Approach to Early Moral Development Orientations toward harming and helping others are central to morality. These orientations undergo major transformations in early life. This paper proposes an interactionist and constructivist approach to early moral development and discusses how children construct orientations toward harming and helping through everyday social interactions. A major developmental acquisition – typically evident by age 3 – is the ability to make judgments of right and wrong based on concerns with others’ welfare. The paper concludes by outlining issues for future research on the development of morality from infancy to childhood.
review-article	HDE492803	Normative Changes and Individual Differences in Early Moral Judgments: A Constructivist Developmental Perspective Normative Changes and Individual Differences in Early Moral Judgments: A Constructivist Developmental Perspective This paper discusses the emergence and development of morality as a distinct form of social knowledge in early childhood. Drawing on social domain theory, we define morality in terms of individuals’ concerns regarding others’ welfare, fair treatment, rights, and the equitable distribution of resources. Moral judgments are described as building on early predispositions but constructed through children’s varied social experiences. We highlight some of the morally relevant interactions in the first few years of life that contribute to early moral development and then summarize evidence regarding young children’s increasing ability to distinguish moral and nonmoral concepts in their judgments. Consistent with our constructivist emphasis, we also draw attention to sources of individual differences in early moral judgment development. We conclude with some suggestions for future research that build on the innovative methods and new findings reported here to further expand our understanding of early moral development.
review-article	HDE493378	"Reimagining Social and Emotional Development: Accommodation and Resistance to Dominant Ideologies in the Identities and Friendships of Boys of Color Reimagining Social and Emotional Development: Accommodation and Resistance to Dominant Ideologies in the Identities and Friendships of Boys of Color Human development is largely studied as a process of internalizing or accommodating to dominant cultural ideologies, with the implicit assumption that such a process is healthy and desirable. Ideologies, however, not only entail positive beliefs (e.g., family is important); they also contain dehumanizing ones (e.g., men are more important than women). Thus, some dominant ideologies must be resisted for healthy development. This paper draws from our longitudinal research with boys of color over three decades to reimagine social and emotional development as a process by which youth accommodate to and resist dominant ideologies in the construction of their identities and friendships. We reveal that patterns of accommodation and resistance are implicit and explicit, change over time, and are associated with adjustment. Framing social and emotional development as a process by which individuals negotiate cultural ideologies offers a more agentic conceptualization of human development and allows for a better understanding of how to help youth thrive."
review-article	HHE291986	Incorporating Covariates into Multipoint Association Mapping in the Case-Parent Design Incorporating Covariates into Multipoint Association Mapping in the Case-Parent Design Background/Aims: To improve the efficiency of disease locus localization in association mapping using case-parent designs and to assess or account for the main covariate effects and gene-covariate interaction effects, while localizing the disease locus. Methods: The present study extends a multipoint fine-mapping approach to incorporate covariates into the association mapping of case-parent designs through parametric and non-parametric modeling. This approach is based on the expected preferential-allele-transmission statistics for transmission from either parent to an affected child. Results: Simulation studies indicate that the efficiency in estimating the disease locus increases considerably when incorporating a covariate associated with the disease. This is especially true when the genetic effect of the disease locus is small. The proposed approach was applied to a young-onset hypertension data sample. The relative efficiency of estimating the locus of young-onset hypertension increases 110-fold after incorporating triglyceride into the association mapping while localizing the disease variant in the lipoprotein lipase gene in the non-parametric model. By incorporating the information of SNP variants into the fine-mapping, the proposed method further assesses the gene-gene interactions between the SNP and the disease locus. Conclusion: With the incorporation of covariates, the proposed method cannot only improve efficiency in estimating disease loci, but can also elucidate the etiology of a complex disease.
review-article	HHE298285	"Accounting for Disease Model Uncertainty in Mapping Heterogeneous Traits – A Bayesian Model Averaging Approach Accounting for Disease Model Uncertainty in Mapping Heterogeneous Traits – A Bayesian Model Averaging Approach Background: Locus heterogeneity, wherein a disease can be caused in different individuals by different genes and/or environmental factors, is a ubiquitous feature of complex traits. A Bayesian approach has been proposed to account for variable rates of heterogeneity across families in a parametric linkage analysis setup [Biswas and Lin: J Am Stat Assoc 2006;101:1341–1351]. As with any parametric approach, its application requires specification of the disease model, which limits its practical utility. Methods: We address this limitation by proposing a Bayesian model averaging (BMA) approach. We consider a finite number of disease models and treat the model as an unknown parameter. In practice, we use simple single-locus disease models as various categories for model. Results: Our simulations as well as analysis of Genetic Analysis Workshop 13 simulated data show that BMA retains at least 80% of the power that is obtained by analyzing under the true disease model. The coverage probability of interval for disease gene is maintained around the nominal level. Finally, we apply BMA to a Late-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease dataset and find evidence for linkage on chromosomes 19, 9, and 21. Conclusion: We conclude that the BMA approach utilizing simple single-locus models for averaging is effective for mapping heterogeneous traits."
research-article	HHE371387	"Increased Rate of Deleterious Variants in Long Runs of Homozygosity of an Inbred Population from Qatar Increased Rate of Deleterious Variants in Long Runs of Homozygosity of an Inbred Population from Qatar Objective: The aim of this study is to evaluate the fraction of putatively deleterious variants within genomic runs of homozygosity (ROH) regions in an inbred and selected cohort of Qatari individuals. Methods: High-density SNP array analysis was performed in 36 individuals, and for 14 of them whole-exome sequencing (WES) was also carried out. Results: In all individuals, regions characterized by a high (hotspot) or low (coldspot) degree of homozygosity in all the analysed individuals were mapped, and the most frequent hotspot regions were selected. WES data were exploited to identify the single nucleotide variations (SNVs) harboured by genes located within both regions in each individual. Evolutionary conservation-based algorithms were employed to predict the potential deleteriousness of SNVs. The amount of in silico predicted deleterious SNVs was significantly different (p &lt; 0.05) between homozygosity hotspot and coldspot regions. Conclusion: Genes located within ROH hotspot regions contain a significant burden of predicted putatively deleterious variants compared to genes located outside these regions, suggesting inbreeding as a possible mechanism allowing an enrichment of putatively deleterious variants at the homozygous state."
meta-analysis	HHE437323	"A Case Study of Fixed-Effects and Random-Effects Meta-Analysis Models for Genome-Wide Association Studies in Celiac Disease A Case Study of Fixed-Effects and Random-Effects Meta-Analysis Models for Genome-Wide Association Studies in Celiac Disease Background/Aims: Amongst the many approaches to genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis (MA), the most popular methods are based on fixed-effects (FE) modeling because it tends to be the statistically most powerful approach in the absence of heterogeneity. However, FE-based MA ignores the potential heterogeneity that may exist between studies. The purpose of our analysis was to test whether results from random effects (RE)-based methods that account for heterogeneity differed significantly from the results that were originally published. Methods: We reanalyzed two GWAS FE-based MAs of celiac disease with RE-based methods: (1) a two-stage GWAS MA that includes 9,451 celiac disease cases and 16,434 controls from 12 collections and (2) a single-stage GWAS MA using a custom dense genotyping platform to capture low-frequency and rare variants in 12,041 cases and 12,228 controls from 7 collections. Results: We present evidence that SNPs at loci that were previously reported to be genome-wide significant (GWS; p &lt; 5 × 10-8) in either the two-stage GWAS MA or the single-stage GWAS MA were not GWS when heterogeneity was accounted for by an RE MA method. Conclusion: This case study highlights the strengths of RE MA methods in the presence of heterogeneity and of pooled FE methods."
meta-analysis	HHE447969	Meta-Analysis for Penalized Regression Methods with Multi-Cohort Genome-Wide Association Studies Meta-Analysis for Penalized Regression Methods with Multi-Cohort Genome-Wide Association Studies Objective: Penalized regression has been successfully applied in genome-wide association studies. While meta-analysis is often conducted to increase power and protect patients' confidentiality, methods for meta-analyzing results of penalized regression in multi-cohort setting are still under development. Methods: We propose to use a data-splitting method to obtain valid p values (or equivalently, coefficient estimates and standard errors) for meta-analysis across multiple cohorts. We examine two ways of splitting data in multi-cohort setting and propose three methods to conduct meta-analysis based on p values. We compare the three meta-analysis methods to mega-analysis, which consists of pooling individual level data. We also apply our proposed meta-analysis approaches to the Framingham Heart Study data, where we divide the original dataset into four parts to create a multi-cohort scenario. Results: The simulations suggest that splitting cohorts has better performance than splitting data within each cohort. The real data application also shows that this method provides results that are similar to the mega-analysis. Conclusion: After comparing the three methods that we proposed to conduct meta-analysis, we recommend splitting cohorts rather than datasets to obtain valid p values for meta-analysis of results from penalized regression in multi-cohort setting.
review-article	HHE452256	"From Common to Rare Variants: The Genetic Component of Alzheimer Disease From Common to Rare Variants: The Genetic Component of Alzheimer Disease Alzheimer disease (AD) is a remarkable example of genetic heterogeneity. Extremely rare variants in the APP, PSEN1, or PSEN2 genes, or duplications of the APP gene cause autosomal dominant forms, generally with complete penetrance by the age of 65 years. Nonautosomal dominant forms are considered as a complex disorder with a high genetic component, whatever the age of onset. Although genetically heterogeneous, AD is defined by the same neuropathological criteria in all configurations. According to the amyloid cascade hypothesis, the Aβ peptide, which aggregates in AD brains, is a key player. APP, PSEN1, or PSEN2 gene mutations increase the production of more aggregation-prone forms of the Aβ peptide, triggering the pathological process. Several risk factors identified in association studies hit genes involved in Aβ production/secretion, aggregation, clearance, or toxicity. Among them, the APOE ε4 allele is a rare example of a common allele with a large effect size, the ORs ranging from 4 to 11-14 for heterozygous and homozygous carriers, respectively. In addition, genome-wide association studies have identified more than two dozen loci with a weak but significant association, the OR of the at-risk allele ranging from 1.08 to 1.30. Recently, the use of massive parallel sequencing has enabled the analysis of rare variants in a genome-wide manner. Two rare variants have been nominally associated with AD risk or protection (TREM2 p.R47H, MAF approximately 0.002, OR approximately 4 and APP p.A673T, MAF approximately 0.0005, OR approximately 0.2). Association analyses at the gene level identified rare loss-of-function and missense, predicted damaging, variants (MAF &lt;0.01) in the SORL1 and ABCA7 genes associated with a moderate relative risk (OR approximately 5 and approximately 2.8, respectively). Although the latter analyses revealed association signals with moderately rare variants by collapsing them, the power to detect genes hit by extremely rare variants is still limited. An alternative approach is to consider the de novo paradigm, stating that de novo variants may contribute to AD genetics in sporadic patients. Here, we critically review AD genetics reports with a special focus on rare variants."
systematic-review	HRP330759	Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance and Hypersensitivity Primary Generalized Glucocorticoid Resistance and Hypersensitivity Context: The human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) is a ubiquitously expressed intracellular, ligand-dependent transcription factor, which mediates the action of glucocorticoids and influences physiological functions essential for life. Alterations in the molecular mechanisms of hGR action impair glucocorticoid signal transduction and alter tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids. This review summarizes the pathophysiology, molecular mechanisms and clinical aspects of primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance (PGGR) and hypersensitivity (PGGH). Evidence Acquisition: A systematic review of the published, peer-reviewed medical literature (PubMed: 1975 through May 2011) was conducted to identify original articles and reviews on this topic. Evidence Synthesis: Evidence synthesis was relied upon the experience of a number of experts in the field, including our extensive personal experience. Conclusions: The molecular basis of PGGR and PGGH has been ascribed to mutations in the hGR gene, which alter tissue sensitivity to glucocorticoids. The stochastic nature of glucocorticoid signaling pathways in association with the variable effect that hGR gene mutations/polymorphisms might have on glucocorticoid signal transduction indicates that alterations in hGR action may have important implications for many critical biological processes, such as the behavioral and physiological responses to stress, the immune and inflammatory reaction, as well as growth and reproduction.
research-article	HRP348290	Reduced Glucocorticoid Receptor Protein Expression in Children with Critical Illness Reduced Glucocorticoid Receptor Protein Expression in Children with Critical Illness Background/Aims: The diagnostic criteria for critical illness-related corticoid insufficiency (CIRCI) are not well established, particularly for children. In addition to alterations in adrenal function, cellular resistance to glucocorticoid action could contribute to CIRCI due to alterations in the functioning of the intracellular receptor protein for corticosteroids, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Methods: We have therefore undertaken a pilot, prospective study to assess whether cellular GR activity can be measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from critically ill children. Results: Total and cytoplasmic, but not nuclear GR levels were significantly lower in PBMCs from critically ill children (i.e. sepsis/septic shock and traumatic brain injury) compared to healthy controls. While total cortisol concentrations did not differ between test groups, salivary and serum-free cortisol concentrations were significantly greater in both groups of children with critical illness. Cortisol-binding globulin levels were significantly lower in patients with sepsis/septic shock. Conclusions: The lower total and cytoplasmic receptor levels in critically ill children suggest that the GR-mediated response to exogenous glucocorticoid therapy may be limited. However, the nuclear transport of GR in critically ill patients suggests that residual receptors in these patients retain functionality and may be accessible to therapeutic treatments that maximize their activity.
research-article	HRP348540	"Height Gain at Adult-Height Age in 184 Short Patients Treated with Growth Hormone from Prepubertal Age to Near Adult-Height Age is Not Related to GH Secretory Status at GH Therapy Onset Height Gain at Adult-Height Age in 184 Short Patients Treated with Growth Hormone from Prepubertal Age to Near Adult-Height Age is Not Related to GH Secretory Status at GH Therapy Onset Background: GH release after stimuli classifies short children as severe idiopathic isolated GH deficiency (IIGHD), mild IIGHD, dissociated GH release (DGHR) and normal GH release (NGHR) and anthropometric birth data as adequate for gestational age (AGA) or small for gestational age (SGA). GH release after stimuli classifies AGA patients as IIGHD or as idiopathic short stature (ISS). Aim: To compare height gain induced by GH therapy (31.8 ± 3.5 µg/kg/day, 7.7 ± 1.6 years) started at prepubertal age and stopped at near adult-height age. Methods: A retrospective longitudinal multicenter study including 184 short patients classified as severe IIGHD n = 25, mild IIGHD n = 75, DGHR n = 55 and NGHR n = 29; or as IIGHD n = 78, ISS n = 57 and SGA n = 49. Height gain was evaluated throughout GH therapy and at adult-height age. Results: Height-SDS gain at adult-height age was similar among severe IIGHD (1.8 ± 0.8 SDS), mild IIGHD (1.6 ± 0.6 SDS), DGHR (1.7 ± 0.7 SDS) and NGHR (1.6 ± 0.7 SDS), or among IIGHD (1.7 ± 0.7 SDS), ISS (1.7 ± 0.6 SDS) and SGA (1.6 ± 0.8 SD). Conclusion: GH-release stimuli are of little help for deciding on GH therapy in the clinical management of prepubertal children with IIGHD, ISS or SGA."
research-article	HRP348837	"Increased Sex Hormone-Binding Globulin Levels in Children and Adolescents with Thyrotoxicosis Increased Sex Hormone-Binding Globulin Levels in Children and Adolescents with Thyrotoxicosis Background: Thyrotoxicosis is a rare condition in pediatric patients, and optimal treatment can be difficult to achieve in some children. To our knowledge, no studies have evaluated sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels in hyperthyroid children and adolescents in relation to age- and gender-related normative data. Methods: SHBG serum levels were determined before and after 4 months of antithyroid therapy (ATT) in 10 children and adolescents with Graves' disease. A total of 903 healthy children and adolescents served as controls. Results: Serum SHBG levels were elevated (&gt;2 SD) at diagnosis in all hyperthyroid children but normalized rapidly following ATT. At diagnosis, median SHBG was +2.51 SD (interquartile range 2.20-3.27) compared to healthy children without thyroid illness, and it declined significantly during ATT (-0.16 SD, -0.66 to 1.64; p &lt; 0.05). Conclusion: This is the first study to demonstrate that serum SHBG levels are markedly increased in children with Graves' disease, and we suggest that SHBG may be an additional marker of thyroid hormone action in children, as has been shown in adults."
research-article	HRP348847	"Variations in the Vitamin D-Binding Protein (DBP) Gene Are Related to Lower 25-Hydroxyvitamin D Levels in Healthy Girls: A Cross-Sectional Study Variations in the Vitamin D-Binding Protein (DBP) Gene Are Related to Lower 25-Hydroxyvitamin D Levels in Healthy Girls: A Cross-Sectional Study Background/Aims: Vitamin D deficiency has been recognized as a worldwide epidemic affecting several pediatric and adolescent populations. We determined the genotype and haplotype distribution of the rs4588 and rs7041 polymorphisms of the GC gene encoding vitamin D-binding protein (DBP) and investigated the associations between these gene variants and their haplotypes with 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels in girls from South Brazil. Methods: Cross-sectional study including 198 apparently healthy girls aged 10-18 years. Plasma levels of 25(OH)D were assessed by radioimmunoassay. Participants were genotyped for rs4588 and rs7041 by real-time PCR, with allelic discrimination assays. Results: Mean chronological age and BMI percentile were 13.17 ± 1.74 years and 57.81 ± 29.03, respectively. Sufficient circulating 25(OH)D levels (≥30 ng/ml) were found in 9.1% of the overall group, insufficient levels (20-29.9 ng/ml) in 59.6%, and deficient levels (&lt;20 ng/ml) in 31.3%. The AA genotype of rs4588, TT genotype of rs7041 and CT-AT/AT-AT (GC 1f-2/2-2) diplotypes were significantly associated with lower 25(OH)D levels, even after adjustment for age and season at the time of blood collection. Conclusions: The GC gene genotype may be related to the susceptibility to low 25(OH)D levels in female children and adolescents."
systematic-review	HRP350251	"Understanding the Growth Hormone Therapy Adherence Paradigm: A Systematic Review Understanding the Growth Hormone Therapy Adherence Paradigm: A Systematic Review Introduction: Growth hormone (GH) therapy is used to treat a variety of growth disorders in childhood/adolescence. Its efficacy is thought to be dependent on patients' adherence to their treatment regimen. Methods: PubMed was searched using the keywords ‘growth hormone', ‘child'[Mesh], ‘adolescent'[Mesh], and ‘patient compliance'[Mesh]. Results: Most studies of adherence to paediatric GH therapy have used either issued/encashed GH prescriptions or questionnaires. Estimates of prevalence of non-adherence vary from 5-82%, depending on the methods and definitions used. Different studies have variously demonstrated an association (or lack thereof) between adherence and age, socioeconomic status, treatment duration, injection device used and injection-giver. A number of interventions have been proposed to improve adherence, including offering a choice of injection device, but none are supported by trials. Poor adherence is associated with reduced height velocity and likely increased economic costs; evidence for other effects is circumstantial. Conclusion: Adherence to paediatric GH therapy is suboptimal, which may partially explain why the mean final height attained is below that of the general population. Analysis of the causes of non-adherence is complicated by conflicting evidence from different studies. Multifactorial interventions are most likely to be successful in improving adherence. We make recommendations for further research."
systematic-review	HRP353760	Systematic Review of Metformin Use in Obese Nondiabetic Children and Adolescents Systematic Review of Metformin Use in Obese Nondiabetic Children and Adolescents Objective: Childhood obesity has become epidemic and has been accompanied by an increase in prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) in youth. Addressing obesity and insulin resistance by drug treatment represents a rational strategy for the prevention of T2DM. A systematic review was performed to evaluate the effectiveness of metformin in reducing weight and ameliorating insulin resistance in obese nondiabetic children. Methods: A PubMed database search was conducted, using ‘metformin', ‘obesity', ‘insulin resistance', ‘children', ‘adolescents' as search terms. Results: Eleven trials were included in the present review. Metformin was administered for 6-12 months at a dosage of 1,000-2,000 mg/daily, decreasing BMI by 1.1-2.7 compared with placebo or lifestyle intervention alone. Concomitantly, fasting insulin resistance improved after metformin therapy. Posttreatment follow-up was performed in one study, showing that after 1 year of discontinuation of therapy the decrease in BMI disappears. Conclusions: Short-term metformin treatment appears to moderately affect weight reduction in severely obese children and adolescents, with a concomitant improvement in fasting insulin sensitivity. Further studies with longer treatment period are needed to establish how much metformin can reduce weight and its real utility in preventing T2DM development in pediatric patients.
systematic-review	HRP371635	The Impact of Growth Hormone Therapy on Adult Height in Noonan Syndrome: A Systematic Review The Impact of Growth Hormone Therapy on Adult Height in Noonan Syndrome: A Systematic Review Background: Recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) is being used to promote linear growth in short children with Noonan syndrome. However, its efficacy is still controversial. Aims: To systematically determine the impact of rhGH therapy on adult height in children with Noonan syndrome. Methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, ISI Web of Science, MEDLINE, and the bibliographic references from all retrieved articles published until April 2014. Studies reporting adult/near-adult height in children with Noonan syndrome treated with rhGH or reporting at least a 3-year follow-up were analysed. Quality and strength of recommendation were assessed according to the Endocrine Society criteria. Results: No controlled trials reporting adult height were available. Five studies were identified reporting adult height or near adult height. Data comparison showed inter-individual variability in the response to rhGH, mean height gain standard deviation score ranging between 0.6 and 1.4 according to national standards, and between 0.6 and 2 according to Noonan standards. Significant biases affected all the studies. Conclusions: High-quality controlled trials on the impact of rhGH therapy on adult height are lacking, and the robustness of available data is not sufficient to recommend such therapy in children with Noonan syndrome.
systematic-review	HRP381713	Efficacy and Safety of Bisphosphonate Therapy in Children with Osteogenesis Imperfecta: A Systematic Review Efficacy and Safety of Bisphosphonate Therapy in Children with Osteogenesis Imperfecta: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: To systematically assess contemporary knowledge regarding the effectiveness and safety of bisphosphonates (BPs) in children with osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). Methods: PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane were searched for eligible articles up to June 2014. Studies eligible for inclusion were (randomized) controlled trials assessing the effects of BPs in children with OI. Methodological quality was assessed independently by 4 reviewers using the Cochrane Collaboration's tool for risk of bias. Results: Ten studies (519 children) were included. Four studies (40%) showed a low risk of bias. All studies investigating lumbar spine areal bone mineral density indicated a significant increase as a result of BP treatment. Most studies observed a significant decrease in fracture incidence. The most frequently reported adverse events were gastrointestinal complaints, fever, and muscle soreness. A significant decrease in (bone) pain due to BP treatment was observed in more than half of the studies. Most studies measuring urinary markers of bone resorption reported a significant decrease. The majority of studies with intravenous treatment showed a significant increase in lumbar projection area, whereas studies with oral treatment did not. Conclusions: Treatment with oral or intravenous BPs in children with OI results in an increase in bone mineral density and seems to be safe and well tolerated.
meta-analysis	HRP437324	Association Study of GWAS-Derived Loci with Height in Brazilian Children: Importance of MAP3K3, MMP24 and IGF1R Polymorphisms for Height Variation Association Study of GWAS-Derived Loci with Height in Brazilian Children: Importance of MAP3K3, MMP24 and IGF1R Polymorphisms for Height Variation Background/Aim: The single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs2282978 (CDK6), rs2425019 (MMP24), rs8081612 (MAP3K3), rs2871865 (IGF1R) and rs3782415 (SOCS2) were among the SNPs most strongly associated with height in a meta-analysis of 47 genome-wide association studies (GWAS) involving 114,223 adults from six ethnic groups. The present study aimed to examine associations between these SNPs and height in Brazilian children. Methods: Cross-sectional heights of 1,008 healthy unrelated 4.4- to 9.7-year-old children were evaluated. All genotypes were determined by allele-specific polymerase chain reactions. Height standard deviation scores (SDS) were generated for this population and regressed on allele counts. Linear regressions were performed to estimate the effect of individual SNPs or a polygenic allelic score on height. Results: The T allele of rs8081612 (MAP3K3), the C allele of rs2871865 (IGF1R) and the G allele of rs2425019 (MMP24) were significantly associated with a 0.091-SDS greater height (95% CI 0.089-0.093, p = 0.001) by polygenic analysis. The mean height SDS difference between children with 2 ‘tall' alleles and children with 4 ‘tall' alleles was 0.24 SDS (95% CI 0.05-0.43, p = 0.01). The observed allelic effect is consistent with that found in previous GWAS. Conclusions: Polymorphisms in MAP3K3, MMP24 and IGF1R act additively on height in children of an admixed population. These results demonstrate the importance of these loci for children's height.
case-report	HRP442289	"Clinical and Hormonal Features of a Male Adolescent with Congenital Isolated Follicle-Stimulating Hormone Deficiency Clinical and Hormonal Features of a Male Adolescent with Congenital Isolated Follicle-Stimulating Hormone Deficiency Aim: Our aim was to describe the clinical and genetic findings in an adolescent male with isolated follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) deficiency and demonstrate the efficacy of recombinant human FSH (rhFSH) replacement in this case. Methods: A 14.5-year-old adolescent male was referred with normal pubertal development and small testes. Serum testosterone, FSH, and luteinising hormone (LH) were measured at baseline and after gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) stimulation. Testicular biopsy was performed, and rhFSH replacement was administered for 6 months. The patient's FSHβ gene was amplified and sequenced. Results: Basal and GnRH-stimulated FSH levels were undetectable, in contrast with increased LH levels under both conditions. Histopathological investigation of a testicular biopsy specimen revealed a reduced number of Sertoli cells, the absence of germ cells, Leydig cell hyperplasia, and a thickened basement membrane in seminiferous tubules. The testicular size changed from 1 ml at baseline to 6 ml after 6 months of rhFSH replacement. Sequencing of the FSHβ gene exon 3 revealed a new missense mutation (c.364T&gt;C, resulting in p.Cys122Arg) in a homozygous state in the patient; both parents and a sister carried the same mutation in a heterozygous state. We also compared our case with all similar cases published previously. Conclusion: We herein described an adolescent male with isolated FSH deficiency due to a novel FSHβ gene mutation associated with a prepubertal testes size and normal virilisation."
case-report	HRP442747	Hypercalcaemia in a Patient with 2p13.2-p16.1 Duplication Hypercalcaemia in a Patient with 2p13.2-p16.1 Duplication Background: Partial duplication of 2p is a rare condition that causes facial anomalies, psychomotor delay, and growth failure. Hypercalcaemia is rare in children. So far, duplication of 2p has never been associated with hypercalcaemia. Methods: Here, we report a girl with a partial duplication of 2p presenting with moderate to severe hypercalcaemia at the age of 2 years. She also had hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis, decreased renal function, and secondary hyperparathyroidism at presentation. She was thoroughly investigated, including genetic testing of the CYP24A1, CASR, ALPL, and NOD2 genes, to determine the cause of hypercalcaemia. Results: 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels were increased. Hypercalcaemia and hypercalciuria responded well to glucocorticoids but not to cinacalcet. Hyperparathyroidism resolved with improving renal function. Apart from the known duplication of 2p, no pathogenic variants were detected in the studied genes. The duplication of 2p contains the PPP3R1 gene, which encodes for the calcineurin B subunit. Conclusion: We conclude that partial duplication of 2p can be associated with hypercalcaemia and hypercalciuria and hypothesise that the underlying mechanism is an increased extra-renal, parathyroid hormone-independent 25-hydroxyvitamin D 1α-hydroxylase activity, leading to raised amounts of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. The increased enzymatic activity could possibly be caused by calcineurin B subunit-related macrophage stimulation.
research-article	HRP444586	"Serum Levels of Polybrominated Diphenyl Ethers in Girls with Premature Thelarche Serum Levels of Polybrominated Diphenyl Ethers in Girls with Premature Thelarche Background/Aims: Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used as flame retardants and have shown endocrine disruption properties in experimental studies. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between the exposure to PBDEs and alterations of puberty in girls referred for idiopathic central precocious puberty (ICPP) and premature thelarche (PT). Methods: A case-control study was conducted in 124 girls: 37 girls with ICPP (mean age 7.4 ± 0.9 years), 56 with PT (mean age 5.7 ± 2.1 years) and 31 controls (mean age 5.4 ± 1.9 years). PBDE serum concentrations, hormone levels and anthropometry were assessed. PBDE concentrations were corrected for total serum lipid content. Individual exposure to PBDEs was evaluated through ad hoc questionnaires. Results: PBDE serum concentrations corrected for total lipid content were significantly higher in girls with PT (mean 1.49 ± 0.63 log ng/g) than in controls (mean 1.23 ± 0.54 log ng/g; p &lt; 0.05). PT girls showed higher levels of PBDE than ICPP girls (1.49 ± 0.63 vs. 1.37 ± 0.49 log ng/g), though this was not significant. An analysis of the questionnaires revealed no significant differences in exposure between the three groups. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that higher concentrations of serum PBDEs are associated with PT in girls."
meta-analysis	HRP446958	"Height Outcome of Recombinant Human Growth Hormone Treatment in Achondroplasia Children: A Meta-Analysis Height Outcome of Recombinant Human Growth Hormone Treatment in Achondroplasia Children: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Although recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) is not approved to treat short stature of achondroplasia (ACH), some studies suggested growth improvement during short-term rhGH treatment. Methods: A meta-analysis of rhGH therapy efficacy in ACH children was performed. Results: From 12 English-language studies, 558 (54.0% males) rhGH-treated ACH children were enrolled. Administration of rhGH (median dosage 0.21 mg/kg/ week; range 0.16-0.42 mg/kg/week) improved height (Ht) from baseline [-5.069 standard deviation score (SDS; 95% CI -5.109 to -5.029); p &lt; 0.0001] to 12 [-4.325 SDS (95% CI -4.363 to -4.287); p &lt; 0.0001] and 24 months [-4.073 SDS (95% CI -4.128 to -4.019); p &lt; 0.0001]. Then, Ht remained approximately constant up to 5 years [-3.941 SDS (95% CI -4.671 to -3.212); p &lt; 0.0001]. Conclusions: In ACH children, rhGH treatment increased Ht from -5.0 to -4.0 SDS during 5 years, but insufficient data are available on both the adult Ht and the changes of body proportions."
case-report	HRP448172	Early Bilateral Gonadoblastoma in a Young Child with Mosaicism for Turner Syndrome and Trisomy 18 with Y Chromosome Early Bilateral Gonadoblastoma in a Young Child with Mosaicism for Turner Syndrome and Trisomy 18 with Y Chromosome Mosaic Turner syndrome (TSM) commonly occurs in the form of 45,X/46,XX and 45,X/46,X,i(X)(q10). Mosaicism for a Y chromosome, 45,X/46,XY, has been well documented and is associated with increased risk of gonadoblastoma (GB). To date, there are only six reported cases of TSM with a trisomy 18 karyotype, and only two of these were phenotypically female with 45,X/47,XY,+18 karyotype. We present the case of a phenotypically female infant born with dysmorphic features. G-banded karyotype and interphase FISH of blood showed 45,X in 95% and 47,XY,+18 (trisomy 18) in 5% of cells analysed. However, interphase FISH of buccal cells showed only the presence of the 45,X cell line. Due to the presence of Y chromosome material, elective gonadectomy was performed at 13 months of age. There were bilateral streak ovaries with early evidence of GB bilaterally, a rudimentary uterus and bilateral fallopian tubes with unilateral ectopic adrenal tissue identified histologically. Interphase FISH of the gonadal tissue was similar to the blood findings with 45,X in 86% of cells and 47,XY,+18 in 14% of cells analysed. This case highlights a rare karyotype of TSM and trisomy 18 in the same patient and is the first reporting the associated finding of bilateral GB.
case-report	HRP449222	"A Case of MECP2 Duplication Syndrome with Gonadotropin-Dependent Precocious Puberty A Case of MECP2 Duplication Syndrome with Gonadotropin-Dependent Precocious Puberty Background:MECP2 duplication syndrome, which is caused by duplication of part of the Xq28 region containing the MECP2 gene, causes intellectual disability and mild dysmorphic features in males. To date, precocious puberty has not been reported as a clinical feature of MECP2 duplication syndrome. Methods: A 6-year-old male with severe intellectual disability was referred because of growth acceleration and precocious puberty. We checked his hormonal profile and conducted imaging studies and an array comparative genomic hybridization analysis. Results: His bone age (9 years and 6 months) was accelerated, and the basal level of testosterone was 8.99 ng/ml. In a luteinizing hormone (LH)-releasing hormone (LHRH) stimulation test, LH increased from 3.69 to 9.32 IU/l, and follicle-stimulating hormone increased from 0.65 to 0.90 IU/l. Chest and abdominal CTs and a brain MRI did not reveal any abnormalities. Treatment with an LHRH analogue effectively suppressed the level of testosterone to &lt;0.03 ng/ml, consistent with the diagnosis of gonadotropin-dependent precocious puberty (GDPP). We identified a duplication of the Xq28 locus including MECP2 in the patient. Conclusion: Precocious puberty is often a benign central process in girls, but it is rarely idiopathic in boys. The present case raises the possibility that GDPP is a novel clinical feature of MECP2 duplication syndrome."
case-report	HRP449223	"Myxedema Coma Secondary to Central Hypothyroidism: A Rare but Real Cause of Altered Mental Status in Pediatrics Myxedema Coma Secondary to Central Hypothyroidism: A Rare but Real Cause of Altered Mental Status in Pediatrics Background: Myxedema coma (MC), a medical emergency defined as severe hypothyroidism leading to altered mental status, is more common in older women with hypothyroidism. Methods/Results: A 7-year-old Caucasian male with chromosome 1q deletion presented with altered mental status preceded by milestone regression. His presenting labs results were: thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) 0.501 μIU/ml and free thyroxine (T4) &lt;0.5 ng/dl. His morning cortisol level was 8.1 μg/dl with repeat testing, while TSH was 1.119 μIU/ml and free T4 was 0.5 ng/dl. Low-dose cosyntropin test showed baseline and peak cortisol levels of 1.9 and 16 μg/dl, respectively. Aside from altered mental status, heart block was present in addition to hypothermia and hypercarbia. Diffuse cerebral cortical and corpus callosum atrophy were seen on MRI. An intravenous (i.v.) stress dose of hydrocortisone was administered for 24 h prior to an i.v. loading dose of levothyroxine. His activity level subsequently returned to baseline within 48 h after treatment had been initiated. Conclusion: Though MC is rare, occurring mainly with noncompliance in primary hypothyroidism, it may occur at the diagnosis of secondary hypothyroidism. Based on features like hypothermia, hypoventilation, and cardiovascular instability occurring in the setting of central hypothyroidism, it should be suspected and managed urgently in order to avert the associated high mortality resulting from treatment delays."
review-article	HRP452150	Guidelines for Growth Hormone and Insulin-Like Growth Factor-I Treatment in Children and Adolescents: Growth Hormone Deficiency, Idiopathic Short Stature, and Primary Insulin-Like Growth Factor-I Deficiency Guidelines for Growth Hormone and Insulin-Like Growth Factor-I Treatment in Children and Adolescents: Growth Hormone Deficiency, Idiopathic Short Stature, and Primary Insulin-Like Growth Factor-I Deficiency Background/Aims: On behalf of the Drug and Therapeutics, and Ethics Committees of the Pediatric Endocrine Society, we sought to update the guidelines published in 2003 on the use of growth hormone (GH). Because idiopathic short stature (ISS) remains a controversial indication, and diagnostic challenges often blur the distinction between ISS, GH deficiency (GHD), and primary IGF-I deficiency (PIGFD), we focused on these three diagnoses, thereby adding recombinant IGF-I therapy to the GH guidelines for the first time. Methods: This guideline was developed following the GRADE approach (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation). Results: This guideline provides recommendations for the clinical management of children and adolescents with growth failure from GHD, ISS, or PIGFD using the best available evidence. Conclusion: The taskforce suggests that the recommendations be applied in clinical practice with consideration of the evolving literature and the risks and benefits to each individual patient. In many instances, careful review highlights areas that need further research.
review-article	HRP453065	Management of Fetal and Neonatal Graves' Disease Management of Fetal and Neonatal Graves' Disease Fetal and neonatal autoimmune hyperthyroidism is a rare, serious but transient disorder. Early diagnosis and treatment are key objectives for an optimal prognosis and the well-being of the child. This review focuses on the management of these patients during the fetal and neonatal periods. We propose a diagnostic algorithm for high-risk pregnancies in mothers with current or past hyperthyroidism related to Graves' disease, involving repeated fetal thyroid gland assessments from 20 weeks of gestation onwards and maternal serum thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibody (TRAb) determination, with close monitoring if TRAb levels exceed 2 to 3 times the upper limit of the normal range. In fetuses with goiter, the main clinical issue is determining whether the cause is (1) maternal antithyroid drug (ATD) treatment that is appropriate for achieving normal maternal thyroid function but inappropriate and excessive for the fetus, resulting in hypothyroidism and necessitating a decrease in the ATD dose during pregnancy, or (2) the presence of TRAbs resulting in fetal thyroid stimulation and hyperthyroidism, requiring an increase in the maternal ATD dose. Methimazole/carbimazole treatment should be initiated as soon as possible during the neonatal period, carefully managed and maintained over a period of 1-3 months and then stopped when TRAb is no longer detectable in serum.
case-report	HRP479511	Beneficial Effects of High Doses of Cabergoline in the Treatment of Giant Prolactinoma Resistant to Dopamine Agonists: A Case Report with a 21-Year Follow-Up Beneficial Effects of High Doses of Cabergoline in the Treatment of Giant Prolactinoma Resistant to Dopamine Agonists: A Case Report with a 21-Year Follow-Up Introduction: Prolactinomas are pituitary tumors with a very low prevalence in childhood and adolescence compared to adulthood. This condition is preferentially treated with dopamine agonists. Resistance to these drugs is rare. Case Report: We describe the case of a boy diagnosed with macroadenoma at the age of 9 and followed up for 21 years. He did not fully respond to treatment with dopamine agonists. His initial prolactin level was 2,400 ng/mL (in males, normal values are &
case-report	HRP479867	Continuous Subcutaneous Recombinant Parathyroid Hormone (1–34) Infusion in the Management of Childhood Hypoparathyroidism Associated with Malabsorption Continuous Subcutaneous Recombinant Parathyroid Hormone (1–34) Infusion in the Management of Childhood Hypoparathyroidism Associated with Malabsorption Background/Aims: Hypoparathyroidism associated with malabsorption can be particularly challenging to manage due to limited and erratic intestinal absorption of calcium and vitamin D analogues, resulting in episodes of hypo- or hypercalcaemia. We evaluated the role of continuous subcutaneous recombinant parathyroid hormone (rhPTH 1–34) infusion (CSPI) in children with hypoparathyroidism associated with intestinal malabsorption resistant to conventional therapy. Method: Four patients (8–13 years of age), with symptomatic hypocalcaemia resistant to conventional therapy, were started on CSPI (follow-up 3–8 years) in two paediatric endocrinology units in Europe. Results: Serum calcium normalized within 48 h of commencing treatment in all 4 patients. An average rhPTH 1–34 dose of 0.4 µg/kg/day resulted in a substantial reduction in symptomatic hypocalcaemia and hypo-/hypercalcaemia-related hospital admissions. An increased alkaline phosphatase activity was noted in the first 6 months on CSPI, indicating an increase in bone turnover. In 2 patients with elevated urinary calcium excretion before CSPI, this normalized in the first year on treatment. No significant side effects were noticed in the short or long term, with patient-reported preference of CSPI over conventional treatment. Conclusion: CSPI is a promising and effective treatment option for managing hypocalcaemia and hyperphosphataemia in children with hypoparathyroidism associated with intestinal malabsorption.
meta-analysis	HRP489125	Evaluation of Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Suppression following Cutaneous Use of Topical Corticosteroids in Children: A Meta-Analysis Evaluation of Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Suppression following Cutaneous Use of Topical Corticosteroids in Children: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: A meta-analysis was performed to determine the likelihood of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression following short-term cutaneous treatment of atopic dermatitis with topical corticosteroids (TCS) in pediatric patients. Methods: All published pediatric clinical trials evaluating TCS use with pre- and post-treatment HPA axis assessment by cosyntropin stimulation testing were included. Results: Of 128 eligible trials, 12 were selected for meta-analysis with a total of 522 participants. There were 20 observed cases of HPA axis suppression (3.8%, 95% CI 2.4–5.8). The percentage of HPA axis suppression with low- (classes 6–7), medium- (classes 3–5) and high-potency (classes 1–2) TCS use was 2% (3 of 148 patients, 95% CI 0.7–5.8), 3.1% (7 of 223 patients, 95% CI 1.5–6.3), and 6.6% (10 of 151 patients, 95% CI 3.6–11.8), respectively. Conclusion: There is a low rate of reversible HPA axis suppression with the use of mid- to low-potency TCS compared to more potent formulations. In pediatric clinical practice, the limited use of mid- to low-potency TCS is rarely associated with clinically significant adrenal insufficiency or adrenal crisis. In the absence of signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, there is little need to test the HPA axis of these patients.
case-report	HRP492899	Rare Cause of Infantile Hypercalcemia: A Novel Mutation in the SLC34A1 Gene Rare Cause of Infantile Hypercalcemia: A Novel Mutation in the SLC34A1 Gene Background: Under physiological conditions, proximal tubular phosphate reabsorption via NaPi-IIa (and NaPi-IIc) ensures the maintenance of phosphate homeostasis. Impairment of NaPi-IIa, encoded by SLC34A1, is associated with various overlapping clinical syndromes, including hypophosphatemic nephrolithiasis with osteoporosis, renal Fanconi’s syndrome with chronic kidney disease, and idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia and nephrocalcinosis. Methods: A patient was referred to our hospital due to hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and hypophosphatemia, as well as persistent hypercalcemia after fluid therapy and sodium replacement. At admission to our hospital, potassium and sodium values were normal. After initiation of phosphorus therapy, hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis were observed. Renal sonography showed bilateral medullary nephrocalcinosis. Analyses of the SLC34A1 gene were performed due to hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia. Results: Gene analyses identified a novel homozygous c.682T&
research-article	HRP494431	Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young due to Glucokinase, HNF1-A, HNF1-B, and HNF4-A Mutations in a Cohort of Turkish Children Diagnosed as Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young due to Glucokinase, HNF1-A, HNF1-B, and HNF4-A Mutations in a Cohort of Turkish Children Diagnosed as Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Background/Aims: Maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is a rare condition often misdiagnosed as type 1 diabetes (T1D). The purposes of this study were: to identify any patients followed in a large Turkish cohort as T1D, with an atypical natural history, who may in fact have MODY, and to define the criteria which would indicate patients with likely MODY as early as possible after presentation to allow prompt genetic testing. Methods: Urinary C-peptide/creatinine ratio (UCPCR) was studied in 152 patients having a diagnosis of T1D for at least 3 years. Those with a UCPCR ≥0.2 nmol/mmol were selected for genetic analysis of the Glucokinase (GCK), Hepatocyte nuclear factor 1a (HNF1A), Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4a (HNF4A), and Hepatocyte nuclear factor 1b (HNF1B) genes. This UCPCR cut-off was used because of the reported high sensitivity and specificity. Cases were also evaluated using a MODY probability calculator. Results: Twenty-three patients from 152 participants (15.1%) had a UCPCR indicating persistent insulin reserve. The mean age ± SD of the patients was 13.6 ± 3.6 years (range 8.30–21.6). Of these 23, two (8.7%) were found to have a mutation, one with HNF4A and one with HNF1B mutation. No mutations were detected in the GCK or HNF1A genes. Conclusion: In Turkish children with a diagnosis of T1D but who have persistent insulin reserve 3 years after diagnosis, up to 9% may have a genetic mutation indicating a diagnosis of MODY.
systematic-review	IAA346896	Parameters Associated with Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria Duration and Severity: A Systematic Review Parameters Associated with Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria Duration and Severity: A Systematic Review Background: Although some authors have already evaluated the predictive value of various parameters regarding the duration of chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU), it remains uncertain which ones have importance in clinical practice as prognostic factors that indeed enable prediction. Similarly, some authors have investigated parameters that might be related to severe cases of CSU. However, the results of studies evaluating several parameters as markers of disease severity are fragmented. Thus, we performed a systematic review to summarize the findings of studies investigating the parameters associated with CSU duration and severity. Methods: Two authors independently searched PubMed until June 2012 for observational retrospective or prospective studies addressing clinical or laboratory parameters associated with disease duration or severity in CSU patients. Results: We found 1,136 potentially relevant published papers related to the subject, 34 of which were included in the systematic review. A total of 16, 6 and 12 articles evaluated CSU parameters on severity, duration or both, respectively. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that disease severity might predict CSU duration. Similarly, evidence suggests that plasma levels of prothrombin fragment 1 + 2, D-dimer and C-reactive protein may function as markers of CSU severity.
systematic-review	IAA442414	Systematic Review on the Definition of Allergic Diseases in Children: The MeDALL Study Systematic Review on the Definition of Allergic Diseases in Children: The MeDALL Study Background: During the last decades, a large number of phenotypes and disease classifications of allergic diseases have been proposed. Despite the heterogeneity across studies, no systematic review has been conducted on phenotype classification and the criteria that define allergic diseases. We aimed to identify clinically expressed, population-based phenotypes of allergic diseases and their interrelationships, to explore disease heterogeneity and to evaluate the measurements employed in disease diagnosis. Methods: We conducted a search of MEDLINE up to December 2012, to identify relevant original studies published in the English language that examine at least one objective of this systematic review in subjects aged 0-18 years. The screening of titles and abstracts and the extraction of data were conducted independently by two reviewers. Results: From a total of 13,767 citations, 197 studies met the criteria for inclusion, with 54% being cohort studies. Allergic diseases were studied as a single entity in 55% (109/197) of the studies or in the context of multimorbidity in 45%. Asthma accounted for 81.7% of the studies examining single diseases. Overall, up to 33 different phenotypes of allergic disease were reported. Transient early, late-onset and persistent wheeze were the most frequently reported phenotypes. Most studies (78%) used questionnaires. The skin-prick test was the preferred measurement of sensitization (64%). Spirometry and bronchial hyperresponsiveness were assessed in one third of the studies, peak flow rate in 8.6% and disease severity in 35%. Conclusions: Studies reporting phenotypes of allergic diseases in children are highly heterogeneous and often lack objective phenotypical measures. A concerted effort to standardize methods and terminology is necessary.
research-article	IAA444279	Clinical Relevance of IgE to Profilin and/or Polcalcin in Pollen-Sensitized Patients Clinical Relevance of IgE to Profilin and/or Polcalcin in Pollen-Sensitized Patients Background: Component-resolved diagnostics is gaining importance in allergy diagnostics. Allergen extracts contain components with different rates of prevalence and clinical relevance, which can be subdivided at molecular level into major and minor allergens. Clinical complaints are usually triggered by major allergens, while the role of sensitization to the panallergens profilin and polcalcin still remains unclear. Methods: Eighty-six patients from southern Bavaria with sensitization to the panallergens profilin (Bet v 2/Phl p 12) and/or polcalcin (Bet v 4/Phl p 7) were examined in regard to their sensitization to the 4 main botanic denominations Betulaceae, Oleaceae, Poaceae and Asteraceae by skin prick test and measurement of specific immunoglobulin E antibodies to natural allergen extracts as well as major allergen components rPhl p 1/5, rBet v 1, rOle e 1 and nArt v 1. Sensitization was rated as clinically relevant or irrelevant depending on anamnesis or intranasal allergen challenge. Results: Regarding the 4 botanic denominations, there was no significant difference in the incidence of sensitization to the panallergens profilin, polcalcin or both. The sensitization pattern does not alter when subdividing the cohort into clinically relevant and silent sensitization. We did not find clinically symptomatic sensitization to panallergens without cosensitization to a major allergen. Conclusions: Our results suggest that sole sensitization to panallergens seems to have no clinical relevance in allergic rhinoconjunctivitis. Clinical complaints seem to be triggered manly by major allergens. Thus, component-resolved allergy diagnostics is crucial in the diagnosis and treatment of polysensitized patients.
research-article	IAA444364	IgE Reactivity of Recombinant Pac c 3 from the Asian Needle Ant (Pachycondyla chinensis) IgE Reactivity of Recombinant Pac c 3 from the Asian Needle Ant (Pachycondyla chinensis) Background: Stings from the Asian needle ant are an important cause of anaphylaxis in East Asia. A 23-kDa protein homologous to antigen 5 is the major allergen produced by these ants. In this study, we aimed to produce a recombinant antigen 5 allergen, Pac c 3. Methods: Recombinant Pac c 3 allergen from the Asian needle ant was expressed in Pichia pastoris and purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation and Ni affinity chromatography. IgE reactivity was demonstrated by ELISA and immunoblotting. Results: The recombinant protein was recognized in 5 of 6 (83.3%) serum samples from patients with demonstrated anaphylaxis to ants. IgE reactivity to an antigen 5 allergen from Asian needle ant venom sac extract was specifically inhibited by the recombinant protein. It was also able to inhibit IgE binding to the vespid allergen Ves v 5 by ImmunoCAP analysis, indicating the presence of cross-reactivity. Conclusion: A recombinant Pac c 3, cross-reactive with Ves v 5, from the Asian needle ant was successfully produced in the methylotrophic yeast P. pastoris. This protein could be useful for the development of component-resolved diagnostics.
case-report	IAA449163	"Secondary Combined Immunodeficiency in Pediatric Patients after the Fontan Operation: Three Case Reports Secondary Combined Immunodeficiency in Pediatric Patients after the Fontan Operation: Three Case Reports The Fontan operation or total cavopulmonal connection (TCPC) is a palliative surgical correction of rare and complex inborn cardiac malformations that are characterized by univentricular circulation. Protein-losing enteropathy (PLE) develops in 4-13% of patients after the Fontan procedure. Fontan-related PLE leads to secondary combined immunodeficiency marked by hypogammaglobulinemia and predominantly CD4+ lymphocytopenia. Here, we present 3 case reports of patients with secondary immunodeficiency after the Fontan operation. The severity of hypogammaglobulinemia correlated with the nature of the infectious complications; however, clinical manifestations of T cell deficiency such as severe viral or opportunistic infections were not observed. The clinical consequences of the secondary combined immunodeficiency were modified by immunoglobulin replacement treatment and antibiotic prophylaxis. Heart transplantation led to the resolution of PLE signs and the restitution of IgG levels in 1 transplanted patient. Our experience shows that the immunological follow-up was delayed in all 3 patients. We suggest that all patients should be followed regularly by a clinical immunologist after the Fontan surgery."
review-article	IAA452889	Are Basophils and Mast Cells Masters in HIV Infection? Are Basophils and Mast Cells Masters in HIV Infection? The World Health Organization AIDS epidemic update estimates that more than 37 million people are living with HIV infection. Despite the unprecedented success of antiretroviral treatments, significant challenges remain in the fight against HIV. In particular, how uninfected cells capture HIV and transmit virions to target cells remains an unanswered question. Tissue mast cells and peripheral blood basophils can be exposed to virions or HIV products during infection. Several HIV proteins (i.e., envelope glycoproteins gp120 and gp41, Tat, and Nef) can interact with distinct surface receptors expressed by human basophils and mast cells and modulate their functional responses at different levels. Additionally, several groups have provided evidence that human mast cells can be infected in vitro, as well as in vivo, by certain strains of HIV. Recently, it has been demonstrated that basophils purified from healthy donors and intestinal mast cells can efficiently capture HIV on their cell surface and, cocultured with CD4+ T cells, they can transfer the virus to the cocultured cells leading to infection. Direct contact between human basophils or intestinal mast cells and CD4+ T cells can mediate viral trans-infection of T cells through the formation of viral synapses. Thus, basophils and mast cells can provide a cellular basis for capturing and then spreading viruses throughout the body. Collectively, these findings suggest that human basophils and mast cells play a complex and possibly distinct role in HIV infection, warranting further investigations.
review-article	IAA453263	Autoimmunity in Primary Antibody Deficiencies Autoimmunity in Primary Antibody Deficiencies Primary antibody deficiencies (PADs) are the most common inherited primary immunodeficiencies in humans, characterized by hypogammaglobulinemia, an inability to produce specific antibodies, and recurrent infections mainly caused by encapsulated bacteria. However, it has been shown that inflammatory disorders, granulomatous lesions, lymphoproliferative diseases, cancer, and autoimmunity are associated with the various types of PAD. Both systemic and organ-specific autoimmune diseases could be attributed to B-cell defects in PAD patients. Immune thrombocytopenic purpura and autoimmune hemolytic anemia are the most common autoimmune disorders in this group of patients. The aim of this review is to describe the proposed mechanisms for autoimmunity and to review the literature with respect to the reported autoimmune disorders in each type of PAD.
review-article	IAA453265	"Classification of Drug Hypersensitivity into Allergic, p-i, and Pseudo-Allergic Forms Classification of Drug Hypersensitivity into Allergic, p-i, and Pseudo-Allergic Forms Drug hypersensitivity reactions (DHR) are clinically and functionally heterogeneous. Different subclassifications based on timing of symptom appearance or type of immune mechanism have been proposed. Here, we show that the mode of action of drugs leading to immune/inflammatory cell stimulation is a further decisive factor in understanding and managing DHR. Three mechanisms can be delineated: (a) some drugs have or gain the ability to bind covalently to proteins, form new antigens, and thus elicit immune reactions to hapten-carrier complexes (allergic/immune reaction); (b) a substantial part of immune-mediated DHR is due to a typical off-target activity of drugs on immune receptors like HLA and TCR (pharmacological interaction with immune receptors, p-i reactions); such p-i reactions are linked to severe DHR; and (c) symptoms of DHR can also appear if the drug stimulates or inhibits receptors or enzymes of inflammatory cells (pseudo-allergy). These three distinct ways of stimulations of immune or inflammatory cells differ substantially in clinical manifestations, time of appearance, dose dependence, predictability, and cross-reactivity, and thus need to be differentiated."
meta-analysis	IAA464324	"Sex-Related Allergic Rhinitis Prevalence Switch from Childhood to Adulthood: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Sex-Related Allergic Rhinitis Prevalence Switch from Childhood to Adulthood: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: A sex-related switch in the prevalence of asthma from childhood (male predominance) to adulthood (female predominance) has been described, but for allergic rhinitis this remains unclear. We aimed to examine sex- and age-group-specific differences in allergic rhinitis prevalence by systematically evaluating studies from across the globe. Methods: A systematic search of MEDLINE and Embase for population-based cross-sectional studies was performed regardless of the language of publication. The search was restricted to the present millennium (2000 to June 2014). Study quality was defined by the sampling method, response rate, sample size, and data collection method. To assess sex differences in the prevalence of self- or parent-reported symptoms of rhinitis, calculated pooled estimates of the male-female ratio (MFR) were obtained using random-effects model meta-analyses due to heterogeneity. A meta-regression analysis was also performed. Results: Out of 6,539 publications identified, 67 cross-sectional population-based studies (291,726 males and 301,781 females) were included in our meta-analysis. In children (&lt;11 years of age) significantly more boys than girls had rhinitis symptoms (MFR 1.21, 95% CI 1.17-1.25), whereas in adolescents (11 to &lt;18 years of age) males were significantly less often affected than females (MFR 0.90, 95% CI 0.85-0.95). No sex-specific prevalence difference was observed in adults (MFR 0.96, 95% CI 0.83-1.17). These findings were consistent in all continents except in Asia, where the male predominance remained beyond childhood. Conclusions: The male predominance of rhinitis prevalence in childhood changed towards a female predominance in adolescence across the globe, except in Asia. Longitudinal studies are needed to confirm these cross-sectional data and examine possible determinants and underlying mechanisms."
review-article	IAA477728	Modulation of CD4+ T Helper Cell Memory Responses in the Human Skin Modulation of CD4+ T Helper Cell Memory Responses in the Human Skin Immunological memory is defined as the capacity to mount faster and more effective immune responses against antigenic challenges that have been previously encountered by the host. CD4+ T helper (Th) cells play central roles in the establishment of immunological memory as they assist the functions of other leukocytes. Th cells express polarized cytokine profiles and distinct migratory and seeding capacities, but also retain a certain functional plasticity that allows them to modulate their proliferation, activity, and homing behaviour upon need. Thus, in healthy individuals, T cell immunomodulation fulfils the task of eliciting protective immune responses where they are needed. At times, however, Th plasticity can lead to collateral tissue damage and progression to autoimmune diseases or, conversely, incapacity to reject malignant tissues and clear chronic infections. Furthermore, common immune players and molecular pathways of diseases can lead to different outcomes in different individuals. A mechanistic understanding of those pathways is therefore crucial for developing precise and curative medical interventions. Here, I focus on the skin microenvironment and comprehensively describe some of the cellular and molecular determinants of CD4+ T cell memory responses in homeostatic and pathological conditions. In discussing the cellular network orchestrating cutaneous immunity, I comprehensively describe the bidirectional interaction of skin antigen-presenting cells and mononuclear phagocytes with Th17 lymphocytes, and examine how the outcome of this interaction is influenced by endogenous skin molecules, including sodium salts and neuropeptides.
review-article	IAA479513	The Implications of DNA Methylation on Food Allergy The Implications of DNA Methylation on Food Allergy Food allergy is a major clinical and public health concern worldwide. The risk factors are well defined, however, the mechanisms by which they affect immune development remain largely unknown, and unfortunately the effective treatment or prevention of food allergy is still being researched. Recent studies show that the genes that are critical for the development of food allergy are regulated through DNA methylation. Environmental factors can affect host DNA methylation status and subsequently predispose people to food allergy. DNA methylation is therefore an important mediator of gene-environment interactions in food allergy and key to understanding the mechanisms underlying the allergic development. Indeed, the modification and identification of the methylation levels of specific genetic loci have gained increasing attention for therapeutic and diagnostic application in combating food allergy. In this review, we summarize and discuss the recent developments of DNA methylation in food allergy, including the pathogenesis, therapy, and diagnosis. This review will also summarize and discuss the environmental factors that affect DNA methylation levels in food allergy.
systematic-review	IAA480081	Association between Allergies and Hypercholesterolemia: A Systematic Review Association between Allergies and Hypercholesterolemia: A Systematic Review Background: There is controversy in the literature regarding the potential relationship between atopic predisposition (AP) and serum cholesterol levels. To this purpose, we reviewed human studies that investigated this possible link. Methods: Following PRISMA guidelines, a literature search of PubMed and Science Direct for peer-reviewed journal articles in English from January 2003, with updates through to August 2016, was conducted. Relevant publications were reviewed that included pediatric and adult populations. Information on the study design, sample, intervention, comparators, outcome, time frame, and risk of bias were abstracted for each article. Results: Of 601 reviewed reports, 18 were included in this systematic review. Fifteen studies assessed the relationship between AP and serum cholesterol levels. Due to the lack both of observational and cross-sectional studies from the literature search at this time (only 8 studies also analyzed confounding factors) there is a high possibility of confounding variables (familial and genetic predisposition, age, gender, BMI, comorbidity, and medication status) that could not be ruled out. Conclusion: Existing studies are heterogeneous, making it difficult to draw broad conclusions. Future studies and more detailed analyses, considering confounding variables and including a larger and homogeneous population, are needed to strengthen the argument for a link between lipid metabolism and atopy.
case-report	IID493346	Patient Preference and Physician Perceptions of Patient Preference for Oral Pharmaceutical Formulations: Results from a Real-Life Survey Patient Preference and Physician Perceptions of Patient Preference for Oral Pharmaceutical Formulations: Results from a Real-Life Survey Background: Pharmaceutical treatment prescribed according to patient preference for a formulation may have a positive impact on adherence to treatment and consequently on treatment outcomes. Aim: This study aimed at understanding patient preference for pharmaceutical formulations and attributes that trigger patient preference and physician perception of patient preference. Methods: Between August and September 2017, gastroenterologists and patients with mild to moderate ulcerative colitis from France, Germany, Spain, and the UK participated in an online survey. The investigation was exploratory in nature, and descriptive results are presented. Results: Patient (n = 380) preference appears to be driven by the appearance (format, shape, size, and color – 44%), number of units per administration (39%), and number of administrations per day (17%). Gastroenterologist (n = 159) preference is instead driven by the number of administrations per day (55%), number of units per day (26%), and tablet size (19%). Overall, 254 (67%) patients preferred a tablet formulation, 111 (29%) preferred granules, and 15 (4%) other formulations. According to gastroenterologist perception of patient preference, only 49% of patients prefer tablets, 38% prefer granules, and 13% have no preference. After switching from granules to tablets, 25% patients expressed negative feelings for granules. However, after switching from tablets to granules, 44% of patients still have positive perceptions of tablets. Among patients receiving tablets (n = 255), 18 (7%) perceived their treatment to be not at all effective versus 16 (13%) patients receiving granules (n = 125). A similar proportion of patients in the two groups perceived their treatment as extremely effective (48 vs. 46%, respectively). Conclusions: Patients generally prefer tablets. Patient and gastroenterologist perception of patient preference for different oral drug formulations is triggered by the same attributes but with inverse importance. To improve adherence, patients should be involved in the choice of the treatment formulation.
meta-analysis	IMI368408	The Effect of Riding as an Alternative Treatment for Children with Cerebral Palsy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Effect of Riding as an Alternative Treatment for Children with Cerebral Palsy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background and Objectives: There is a substantial body of evidence assessing the effects of equine-assisted therapy on physiological and psychological aspects of individuals with disabilities. This study aimed to evaluate the physiological benefits of this alternative therapy for children with cerebral palsy (CP) by means of a systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: This systematic review included all randomized and nonrandomized clinical trials of hippotherapy (HT), therapeutic horse riding (THR), and artificial saddle (AS) for the treatment of children with CP by a systematic search in Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, and other databases up to November 2012. Articles were assessed for inclusion eligibility and quality by two independent reviewers. Any discordant case was re-reviewed and consensus was obtained after sufficient discussion. A random effects model of meta-analysis was applied to provide summary statistics for each outcome. Results: Seven randomized controlled trials (RCTs), 4 non-RCTs, and 7 self-controlled studies were included for quality assessment. Ten studies assessed the effect of HT, 5 evaluated THR, and 3 evaluated AS. The sample size differed from 3 to 72, and the quality ranged from low to moderate. Six studies were included in the meta-analysis, and there was a significant improvement in the 66-item Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM-66), the GMFM-66/88 total score, and the dimension E of the GMFM. Although the asymmetry score tended to be reduced, it failed to reach statistical significance. Conclusions: HT, THR, and AS seem to improve the total score of the gross motor function via improvement of the walking, running, and jumping dimension. However, they are not likely to be of benefit to the symmetry of postural muscle activity. Studies included in this review lack high-quality RCTs with a sufficient number of subjects, which thus warrants further evaluations of these modalities using large-scale well-designed RCTs.
research-article	IMI369530	Constitutional Study of Parkinson's Disease Patients Based on Traditional Chinese Medicine Pattern Differentiation Constitutional Study of Parkinson's Disease Patients Based on Traditional Chinese Medicine Pattern Differentiation Objectives: It was the aim of this study to determine whether (1) Parkinson's disease (PD) patients can be divided into different traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) constitutions based on the 44-item Traditional Chinese Medical Constitutional Scale and Classification (TCM-CSC, Chinese version, &
systematic-review	IMI371467	Integrative Cognitive Reserve Integrative Cognitive Reserve The cognitive reserve (CR) against cognitive damage stems from a series of observations. The purpose of this study is to perform a systematic review to summarize the concept of CR. A variety of factors such as age, education level, reading ability, and vocabulary have an impact on the reserve according to a large amount of research and may influence CR. Furthermore, due to measurement difficulties, efforts to explore CR have been hindered. This is why different methods have been used to quantify reserve, such as multiple indicators multiple causes, residual variance in episodic memory performance, the Sole-Padulles Childhood Enrichment measure, the Mini-Mental State Examination, the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test, the Hollingshead Two-Factor Index of Social Position, the Cattell Culture Fair Intelligence Test, and the Digit Span Subtests of the Wechsler Memory Scale. In addition, numerous studies explored the role of CR in various diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, hepatitis C, obesity, and sleep onset/maintenance difficulties. CR plays a significant role in the morbidity of these diseases, and since integrative medicine may be able to modify CR, it might be an effective tool to prevent these serious diseases.
review-article	IMI452949	The Puzzle of the Skin Patterns The Puzzle of the Skin Patterns Background: The pattern of distribution of skin diseases remains one of the most elusive problems in dermatology, particularly when multiple pathologies are involved and coexistence of patterns is present. Most skin diseases show a predilection for certain body areas and are located in characteristic patterns. Many dermatoses exhibit lesions in a segmental fashion concomitantly with disseminated patterns. Sometimes the sites of predilection are inexplicable. Objectives: The main purpose of this paper is to give an overview on the peculiar arrangement of cutaneous lesions in both congenital and acquired skin disorders as well as reactive phenomena in vulnerable areas, in order to better recognise them clinically and understand their pathogenesis. Methods: Based on personal observations and a review of literature, this paper summarises the basics in understanding the patterned distribution of skin lesions, highlights the significance of the lines of Blaschko and their relationship with mosaicism, and describes some of the reactive skin phenomena. Results: Skin mosaicism plays a crucial role in the distribution and arrangement of skin lesions, as demonstrated by recent advances in genetic research in an increasing number of various skin diseases.
case-report	IMI494618	Elevated Hemidiaphragm and Shortness of Breath: Challenges in Clinicoradiologic Integration Elevated Hemidiaphragm and Shortness of Breath: Challenges in Clinicoradiologic Integration Unilateral diaphragmatic paralysis is often suspected when a hemidiaphragm is found abnormally elevated on chest radiography. Chest radiography has a high sensitivity for diaphragmatic palsy. A 67-year-old male presented to the hospital with a history of 4 months of exertional breathlessness that improved after taking a rest. The patient had normal cardiac and respiratory physical function. He also had a normal electrocardiogram and good systolic function on echocardiography. A treadmill test revealed ST-segment changes during peak exercise and recovery phases. On chest X-ray, his right hemidiaphragm was shown to be significantly elevated. Further investigation was conducted to rule out diaphragmatic paralysis, and the findings took a surprising turn to an entirely different diagnosis.
systematic-review	INE353124	A Systematic Review of Endovascular Management of Internal Carotid Artery Dissections A Systematic Review of Endovascular Management of Internal Carotid Artery Dissections Background: We conducted a review of the safety and outcomes of endovascular intervention in patients with internal carotid artery dissection (ICAD). Summary: A literature review was performed. PubMed and Medline databases were searched from inception to September 2012 with the key words ‘carotid artery' (title), ‘dissection' (title) and ‘endovascular' (title/abstract). All studies were included which reported outcomes of endovascular intervention in ICAD and provided information about technical and clinical results. After screening, we included 23 articles. In total, 201 patients (128 male and 73 female) were included in the eligible studies. The mean age was 46.7 years (range 13-83 years). Of the 201 patients, the causes of the carotid dissections were traumatic in 69 (34.3%), spontaneous in 115 (57.2%) and iatrogenic in 17 (8.5%). The technical success rate was 99.1%. The overall rate of major cardiovascular events in the perioperative period was 4%. No procedure-related deaths occurred. Imaging follow-up data (mean follow-up time 16.5 months) demonstrated that only 3.3% of patients had intimal hyperplasia or in-stent restenosis or occlusion of a treated vessel. Clinical follow-up data (mean follow-up period 20.9 months) showed that only 2.1% of patients had a recurrent transient ischemic attack in the territory of the treated vessel. Key Messages: Endovascular intervention with stenting or stent-graft-supported angioplasty in selected patients with ICAD is promising. However, further evaluation is warranted to provide more evidence to support the feasibility of endovascular procedures in treating ICAD.
meta-analysis	INE430474	"Safety and Efficacy of Mechanical Thrombectomy Using Stent Retrievers in the Endovascular Treatment of Acute Ischaemic Stroke: A Systematic Review Safety and Efficacy of Mechanical Thrombectomy Using Stent Retrievers in the Endovascular Treatment of Acute Ischaemic Stroke: A Systematic Review Background: The treatment of choice for acute ischaemic stroke is the intravenous administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator within 3-4.5 h of symptom onset. However, the use of a thrombolytic would be limited by its narrow therapeutic window and contraindications. As a result, in recent years, techniques such as mechanical thrombectomy have emerged, which employ thrombus retrieval devices, such as stent retrievers (Solitaire™, Trevo® or Revive™), whose safety and efficacy in the endovascular treatment of acute ischaemic stroke is analysed in this article. Methods: A systematic literature search was undertaken until March 2015. The quality of evidence was assessed according to the GRADE methodology. A meta-analysis of the results of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) was performed, and the weighted average for the case series' sample size was calculated (Review Manager v5.2 and SPSS v19). Results: Seventeen primary studies (2 RCTs, Solitaire™ and Trevo® vs. Merci®, and 15 case series) were selected. The RCT results show that stent retrievers have a safety profile similar to the Merci® device. However, both Solitaire™ and Trevo® achieved a higher recanalisation success rate (OR, 4.56; 95% CI, 2.63-7.90; p &lt; 0.00001) and appropriate clinical outcome at 90 days (OR, 2.54; 95% CI, 1.52-4.25; p &lt; 0.0004), although the 90-day mortality rate was similar in both groups (OR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.17-3.37; p = 0.70). Conclusions: Stent retrievers appear to be safe and effective devices, achieving high recanalisation rates and good clinical outcomes in the endovascular treatment of patients with acute ischaemic stroke due to the occlusion of intracranial arteries in comparison with the clot retriever Merci®."
systematic-review	INE442355	"Systematic Review and Pooled Analyses of Recent Neurointerventional Randomized Controlled Trials: Setting a New Standard of Care for Acute Ischemic Stroke Treatment after 20 Years Systematic Review and Pooled Analyses of Recent Neurointerventional Randomized Controlled Trials: Setting a New Standard of Care for Acute Ischemic Stroke Treatment after 20 Years Background: Recent advances in the treatment of ischemic stroke have focused on revascularization and led to better clinical and functional outcomes. A systematic review and pooled analyses of 6 recent multicentered prospective randomized controlled trials (MPRCT) were performed to compare intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (IV tPA) and endovascular therapy (intervention) with IV tPA alone (control) for anterior circulation ischemic stroke (AIS) secondary to large vessel occlusion (LVO). Objectives: Six MPRCTs (MR CLEAN, ESCAPE, EXTEND IA, SWIFT PRIME, REVASCAT and THERAPY) incorporating image-based LVO AIS were selected for assessing the following: (1) prespecified primary clinical outcomes of AIS patients in intervention and control arms: good outcomes were defined by a modified Rankin Scale score of 0-2 at 90 days; (2) secondary clinical outcomes were: (a) revascularization rates [favorable outcomes defined as modified Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction scale (mTICI) score of 2b/3]; (b) symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH) rates and mortality; (c) derivation of number needed to harm (NNH), number needed to treat (NNT), and relative percent difference (RPD) between intervention and control groups, and (d) random effects model to determine overall significance (forest and funnel plots). Results: A total of 1,386 patients were included. Good outcomes at 90 days were seen in 46% of patients in the intervention (p &lt; 0.00001) and in 27% of patients in the control groups (p &lt; 0.00002). An mTICI score of 2b/3 was achieved in 70.2% of patients in the intervention arm. The sICH and mortality in the intervention arm compared with the control arm were 4.7 and 14.3% versus 7.9 and 17.8%, respectively. The NNT and NNH in the intervention and control groups were 5.3 and 9.1, respectively. Patients in the intervention arm had a 50.1% (RPD) better chance of achieving a good 90-day outcome as compared to controls. Conclusions: Endovascular therapy combined with IV tPA (in appropriately selected patients) for LVO-related AIS is superior to IV tPA alone. These results support establishing an endovascular therapy in addition to IV tPA as the standard of care for AIS secondary to LVO."
research-article	INE444333	Fractional Flow Assessment for the Evaluation of Intracranial Atherosclerosis: A Feasibility Study Fractional Flow Assessment for the Evaluation of Intracranial Atherosclerosis: A Feasibility Study Purpose: Current studies on endovascular intervention for intracranial atherosclerosis select patients based on luminal stenosis. Coronary studies demonstrated that fractional flow measurements assess ischemia better than anatomical stenosis and can guide patient selection for intervention. We similarly postulated that fractional flow can be used to assess ischemic stroke risk. Methods: This was a feasibility study to assess the technical use and safety of applying a pressure guidewire to measure fractional flow across intracranial stenoses. Twenty patients with severe intracranial stenosis were recruited. The percentage of luminal stenosis, distal to proximal pressure ratios (fractional flow) and the fractional flow gradients across the stenosis were measured. Procedural success rate and safety outcomes were documented. Results: All 20 patients had successful crossing of stenosis by the pressure guidewire. Ten patients underwent angioplasty, and 5 had stenting performed. There was one perforator stroke, but not related to the use of the pressure wire. For the 13 patients with complete pre- and postintervention data, the mean preintervention stenosis, fractional flow and translesional pressure gradient were 76.2%, 0.66 and 29.9 mm Hg, whilst the corresponding postintervention measurements were 24.7%, 0.88 and 10.9 mm Hg, respectively. Fractional flow (r = -0.530, p = 0.001) and the translesional pressure gradient (r = 0.501, p = 0.002) only had a modest correlation with the luminal stenosis. Conclusion: Fractional flow measurement by floating a pressure guidewire across the intracranial stenosis was technically feasible and safe in this study. Further studies are needed to validate its use for ischemic stroke risk assessment.
meta-analysis	INE454721	"Risk of Intracranial Hemorrhage after Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Risk of Intracranial Hemorrhage after Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Intracranial hemorrhage is a major complication of endovascular treatment in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Controlled clinical trials reported varied incidences of intracranial hemorrhage after endovascular treatment. This meta-analysis aimed to estimate whether endovascular treatment, compared with medical treatment, increases the risk of intracranial hemorrhage in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Methods: The current publications on endovascular treatment for acute ischemic stroke were systematically reviewed. Rates of intracranial hemorrhage after endovascular treatment for acute ischemic stroke reported in controlled clinical trials were pooled and analyzed. Random and fixed-effect models were used to pool the outcomes. For analyzing their individual risks, intracranial hemorrhages after endovascular treatment were classified as symptomatic and asymptomatic. Results: Eleven studies involving 1,499 patients with endovascular treatment and 1,320 patients with medical treatment were included. After pooling the data, the risk of any intracranial hemorrhage was significantly higher in patients with endovascular treatment than in patients with medical treatment (35.0 vs. 19.0%, OR = 2.55, 95% CI: 1.64-3.97, p &lt; 0.00001). The risk of asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage was also significantly higher in patients with endovascular treatment than in those with medical treatment (28 vs. 12%, OR = 3.16, 95% CI: 1.62-6.16, p &lt; 0.001). However, the risks of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage were similar in patients with endovascular treatment and in those with medical treatment (5.6 vs. 5.2%, OR = 1.09, 95% CI: 0.79-1.50, p = 0.61). Conclusion: Although the risk of any intracranial hemorrhage may increase after endovascular treatment, the risk of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage may remain similar as compared with medical treatment."
meta-analysis	INE471890	"Safety and Efficacy of Low-Profile, Self-Expandable Stents for Treatment of Intracranial Aneurysms: Initial and Midterm Results - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Safety and Efficacy of Low-Profile, Self-Expandable Stents for Treatment of Intracranial Aneurysms: Initial and Midterm Results - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Low-profile stents seem to be associated with a higher incidence of thromboembolic events compared with preexisting stents. We conducted a systematic review of 11 eligible reports and a meta-analysis of 7 reports with respect to the clinical efficacy and safety of low-profile stents. There were 217 intracranial aneurysms reported; 22% were ruptured aneurysms. In all, 72% were treated using single stenting, 19% were treated using overlapping stenting, and 6% were treated using balloon angioplasty followed by stenting; 3% were used to assess the flow diverter effect in a dissecting aneurysm or were treated using unexpected subtotal coil packing. On immediate postprocedural angiographic results, Raymond class I and II obliteration was obtained in 87% of the aneurysms. On angiographic results at 3-6 months, Raymond class I and II obliteration or stability was obtained in 79% of the aneurysms, and Raymond class III obliteration was obtained in 3% of the aneurysms. The recurrence rate on follow-up of intracranial aneurysms was 6.5% (5.7% with LEO Baby and 1.3% with LVIS Jr). The periprocedural complication rate was 12.4%. Periprocedural thromboembolism occurred in 6.5% of the cases. The rate of in-stent stenosis on follow-up of intracranial aneurysms was 10%. In the midterm result, the recurrence rate with use of low-profile, self-expandable stents was relatively low compared to that with use of other self-expandable stents. In the meta-analysis comparing LEO Baby with LVIS Jr, the obliteration rate at 6 months was not significantly different, but the periprocedural complication rate was relatively low with LVIS Jr."
meta-analysis	INE477589	"Mechanical Thrombectomy for Middle Cerebral Artery Division Occlusions: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Mechanical Thrombectomy for Middle Cerebral Artery Division Occlusions: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Middle cerebral artery division (M2) occlusion was significantly underrepresented in recent mechanical thrombectomy (MT) randomized controlled trials, and the approach to this disease remains heterogeneous. Objective: To conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of outcomes at 90 days among patients undergoing MT for M2 middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusions. Methods: Five clinical databases were searched from inception through September 2016. Observational studies reporting 90-day modified Rankin Scale scores for patients undergoing MT for M2 MCA occlusions with an M1 MCA control group were selected. The primary outcome of interest was good clinical outcome 90 days after MT of an M1 or M2 MCA occlusion. Secondary outcomes of interest included mortality and excellent clinical outcome, recanalization rates, significant intracerebral hemorrhage, and procedural complications. Results: A total of 323 publications were identified, and 237 potentially relevant articles were screened. Six studies were included in the analysis (M1 = 1,203, M2 = 258; total n = 1,461). We found no significant differences in good clinical outcomes (1.10 [95% CI, 0.83-1.44]), excellent clinical outcomes (1.07 [0.65-1.79]), mortality at 3 months (0.85 [0.58-1.24]), recanalization rates (1.06 [0.32-3.48]), and significant intracranial hemorrhage (1.19 [0.61-2.30]). Conclusions: MT of M2 MCA occlusions is as safe as that of main trunk MCA occlusions, and comparable in terms of clinical outcomes and hemorrhagic complications. Randomized clinical trials are needed to assess the impact of MT in patients with M2 occlusions, given that M1 MCA occlusions have different natural histories than M2 occlusions."
case-report	INE493198	Recanalization of Tandem Vertebrobasilar Occlusions with Contralateral Vertebral Occlusion or Hypoplasia via either Direct Passage or the SHERPA Technique Recanalization of Tandem Vertebrobasilar Occlusions with Contralateral Vertebral Occlusion or Hypoplasia via either Direct Passage or the SHERPA Technique Introduction: Tandem vertebral ostial disease with acute intracranial vertebrobasilar occlusion with contralateral vertebral occlusion or hypoplasia presents a unique challenge to the interventionalist. Methods: The authors queried a prospectively maintained institutional endovascular database from August 2013 to June 2018 for cases of endovascularly treated acute tandem vertebrobasilar occlusions in the presence of contralateral vertebral occlusive disease or hypoplasia. Demographic and presentation data, the technique, results, and clinical outcome were extracted. Results: Tandem recanalization was attempted and achieved in 5 patients with a thrombolysis in cerebral infarction (TICI) 3 result in 4 patients and a TICI 2c result in 1 patient. To facilitate effective manual aspiration thrombectomy for the tandem basilar occlusion, performed in all cases in 1 or 2 passes, the NeuronTM MAX sheath was advanced into the V2 after Dotter or balloon angioplasty of the diseased origin. In cases where the origin cannot be crossed/visualized, the Synchro Helper to Evaluate via Retrograde Passage an Arterial origin (SHERPA) technique, entailing the passage of a microwire retrograde via the hypoplastic contralateral vertebral artery was utilized to delineate the vertebral ostium (n = 2 cases). All but 1 patient had substantial improvement in the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score after the procedure. Conclusion: Recanalization of tandem vertebrobasilar occlusions with contralateral occlusion or hypoplasia is feasible. Intracranial recanalization is facilitated by the passage of a long 6F sheath into V2, and retrograde delineation of an occluded vertebral origin with a microwire may serve as a crucial adjunct.
research-article	INE495160	"Real-World Impact of Retrievable Stents for Acute Ischemic Stroke on Disability Utilizing the National Inpatient Sample Real-World Impact of Retrievable Stents for Acute Ischemic Stroke on Disability Utilizing the National Inpatient Sample Purpose: We assess the impact of retrievable stent (RS) compared to first-generation devices on in-hospital mortality and disability in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Methods: Using the National Inpatient Sample, data were obtained for patients with a primary diagnosis of AIS who underwent mechanical thrombectomy (MT) and were admitted to US hospitals between 2010 and 2014. Two time periods were compared: 2010–2012 (pre-RS Food and Drug Administration [FDA] approval) and 2013–2014 (post-RS FDA approval). Disability level was used to classify outcomes as minimal disability, moderate to severe disability, or in-hospital mortality. Weighted, multivariable logistic regression was used to assess the association between MT device type and disability. Results: A total of 2,443,713 weighted patients admitted with AIS were identified; 148,923 (4.9%) of these received intravenous tissue plasminogen activator; and 23,719 (0.8%) underwent MT. In multivariable logistic regression analysis, the odds of in-hospital mortality decreased (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.59–0.82) in the post-RS time-period compared with pre-RS time. The odds of moderate-to-severe disability decreased (OR 0.88, 95% CI 0.73–1.06) compared with minimal disability. In-hospital mortality rates decreased successively over the 4 years in the MT-treated patients (p &"
research-article	INT346775	Tracing the Spread of Hepatitis C Virus in Turkey: A Phylogenetic Analysis Tracing the Spread of Hepatitis C Virus in Turkey: A Phylogenetic Analysis Background/Aims: Molecular epidemiology of hepatitis C virus (HCV) shows that HCV genotypes are unique with respect to their nucleotide sequence, geographical distribution and clinical relationship. Methods: In this study we enrolled 67 HCV-infected individuals with various stages of liver disease from four geographical regions of Turkey. A partial NS5B region of the HCV genome was sequenced and subjected to phylogenetic analysis to determine the circulating HCV genotypes and subtypes. Results: The results showed that HCV genotype 1 (subtype1b) is the main genetic variant of HCV in Turkey but did not reveal any Turkish indigenous phylogenetic cluster. Phylogenetic analysis showed that Turkish strains have their closest matches from both Asia (Japan) and Europe/USA. Conclusions: In view of Turkey's geographic position, HCV-1b transmission from Europe is not exceptional. This study could not establish a clear role of other HCV genotypes prevalent in neighboring Asian countries in Turkey's HCV transmission, which would need to be confirmed by further regional epidemiological studies.
meta-analysis	INT369097	"Meta-Analysis: Superior Treatment Response in Asian Patients with Hepatitis C Virus Genotype 6 versus Genotype 1 with Pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin Meta-Analysis: Superior Treatment Response in Asian Patients with Hepatitis C Virus Genotype 6 versus Genotype 1 with Pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin Objective: Our goal was to systematically and quantitatively assess treatment response between Asian patients with hepatitis C virus genotype 6 (HCV-6) and hepatitis C virus genotype 1 (HCV-1) treated for 48 weeks with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Methods: We performed a literature search in MEDLINE and EMBASE for ‘genotype 6' in August 2013. Additional abstracts from major international scientific conferences from 2012 to 2013 were reviewed. Studies included were original articles with ≥10 treatment-naïve Asian HCV-6 patients. Exclusion criteria were coinfections with hepatitis B virus, HIV and/or other liver diseases. Heterogeneity was defined as a Cochrane Q test with a p value of 0.10 and an I2 statistic of &gt;50%. Results of a random-effects model are reported. Results: A total of 1,046 (503 HCV-6; 543 HCV-1) patients from 12 studies were included in the analysis. The pooled sustained virologic response (SVR) rate was 80.2% (95% CI 74.3-85.0, Q statistic = 20.87, p &lt; 0.035; I2 = 47.3%) for HCV-6 and 62.5% (95% CI 41.9-79.4, Q statistic = 52.41, p &lt; 0.001; I2 = 92.37) for HCV-1 patients. HCV-6 patients had a significantly higher SVR rate compared to HCV-1 patients (odds ratio 2.73, 95% CI 1.69-4.41, p &lt; 0.001). Approximately one fourth of patients without early virologic response (EVR) achieved SVR, regardless of genotype (HCV-1, n = 6/23; HCV-6, n = 4/21). Conclusions: Asian patients with HCV-6 can expect higher SVR rates (∼80%) than HCV-1 patients (∼63%). EVR as a stopping rule is less clear in Asian patients with HCV-6 and HCV-1."
meta-analysis	INT437427	"Treatment of Acute Hepatitis C Infection with Pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin in Patients Coinfected with Human Immunodeficiency Virus: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Treatment of Acute Hepatitis C Infection with Pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin in Patients Coinfected with Human Immunodeficiency Virus: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Of the 35 million human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients worldwide, 10-40% are coinfected with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV). Compared to HCV-monoinfected patients, those coinfected experience decreased spontaneous HCV clearance, accelerated liver fibrosis, and a decreased response to anti-HCV therapy. We conducted a meta-analysis to estimate the efficacy of treating acute HCV in HIV-positive patients with peginterferon and ribavirin combination therapy. Methods: Two authors independently searched MEDLINE and EMBASE (2014) for English articles, and reviewed bibliographies and abstracts from major liver and HIV conferences (2011-2013). Original studies featuring at least 10 treatment-naive, HIV-positive adults infected with acute HCV and treated with peginterferon and ribavirin were included. Analyses were calculated using a random-effects model. Heterogeneity was assessed using the Cochrane Q test (p &lt; 0.05) and the I2 statistic (&gt;50%). Results: From 12 studies (450 patients), the pooled sustained virological response (SVR) was 71.4% (95% CI 64.7-77.4; Q statistic = 22.20, p = 0.023, I2 = 50.44). The rapid virological response (RVR; 7 studies, 196 patients) was 47.4% (95% CI 40.6-54.7), and the early virological response (EVR; 9 studies, 283 patients) was 82.8% (95% CI 67.0-92.0). The probability of an SVR was 93.1% (95% CI 84.9-97.0) in those who obtained an RVR (6 studies, 82 patients) and 85.9% (95% CI 78.7-91.0) if an EVR (7 studies, 168 patients) was reached. Conclusion: Peginterferon with ribavirin is an effective option for treating acute HCV in HIV-positive patients, especially if they achieve an RVR or an EVR."
meta-analysis	INT444366	"Influence of Host and Viral Factors on Patients with Chronic Hepatitis C Virus Genotype 6 Treated with Pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Influence of Host and Viral Factors on Patients with Chronic Hepatitis C Virus Genotype 6 Treated with Pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the influence of host and viral factors on the sustained virologic response (SVR) in hepatitis C virus genotype 6 (HCV-6) patients treated with pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN) and ribavirin (RBV). Methods: Data were retrieved from Medline, Embase, PubMed and the Cochrane Library for ‘genotype 6' studies published up to December 2014 and for abstracts from international scientific meetings. Inclusion criteria were efficacy of PEG-IFN+RBV based on SVR, 24- or 48-week therapy and treatment-naïve patients. Patients with hepatitis B, D and E and HIV coinfection or another concurrent liver disease were excluded. Pooled standard difference, odds ratio and confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a random-effect model with STATA 11. Results: Fourteen studies were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled SVR rate was 80% (95% CI: 0.78-0.83, p &lt; 0.0001; I2 = 71.2%). SVR of the PEG-IFN+RBV-treated HCV-6 patients was markedly higher than that of HCV-1 patients (80.1 vs. 55.3%). The SVR rate was significantly higher for the 48- than the 24-week treatment, but not different among HCV-infected patients with rs12979860 and ss469415590 polymorphisms of the ILFN4 gene (80.6% CC vs. 66.7% non-CC, p = 0.593; 81.1% TT/TT vs. 60% non-TT/TT, p = 0.288). Gender and type of PEG-IFN did not affect SVR rates. Conclusions: Treatment outcomes for HCV-6 patients are superior to those for HCV-1 patients and comparable to those of HCV-2 and HCV-3 patients, especially at 48 weeks. The level of fibrosis affects treatment outcome, but SVR rates are not significantly different between genders. IL28B and IFNL4 polymorphisms are not significantly associated with HCV-6 treatment outcome."
review-article	INT478729	Evolution and Emergence of Pathogenic Viruses: Past, Present, and Future Evolution and Emergence of Pathogenic Viruses: Past, Present, and Future Incidences of emerging/re-emerging deadly viral infections have significantly affected human health despite extraordinary progress in the area of biomedical knowledge. The best examples are the recurring outbreaks of dengue and chikungunya fever in tropical and sub-tropical regions, the recent epidemic of Zika in the Americas and the Caribbean, and the SARS, MERS, and influenza A outbreaks across the globe. The established natural reservoirs of human viruses are mainly farm animals, and, to a lesser extent, wild animals and arthropods. The intricate “host-pathogen-environment” relationship remains the key to understanding the emergence/re-emergence of pathogenic viruses. High population density, rampant constructions, poor sanitation, changing climate, and the introduction of anthropophilic vectors create selective pressure on host-pathogen reservoirs. Nevertheless, the knowledge and understanding of such zoonoses and pathogen diversity in their known non-human reservoirs are very limited. Prevention of arboviral infections using vector control methods has not been very successful. Currently, new approaches to protect against food-borne infections, such as consuming only properly cooked meats and animal products, are the most effective control measures. Though significant progress in controlling human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis viruses has been achieved, the unpredictable nature of evolving viruses and the rare occasions of outbreaks severely hamper control and preventive modalities.
research-article	INT493798	High-Throughput Sequencing of Putative Novel microRNAs in Rhesus Monkey Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells following EV71 and CA16 Infection High-Throughput Sequencing of Putative Novel microRNAs in Rhesus Monkey Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells following EV71 and CA16 Infection Objectives: Enterovirus 71 (EV71) and Coxsackievirus A16 (CA16) remain the major pathogens in hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD) cases, but the mechanisms of the different pathogeneses that follow EV71 and CA16 infection remain largely unknown. Methods: Herein, we utilized microRNA (miRNA) deep sequencing to investigate the roles of novel differentially expressed miRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) infected with EV71 and CA16. Results: The results identified 13 novel differentially expressed miRNAs in each group. Additionally, the target genes were predicted by the miRanda and RNAhybrid programs, and a total of 2,501 targets were found in the two databases. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses revealed that these targets were mainly involved in cell development and were associated with nervous system development, system development, multicellular organism development, the Wnt signaling pathway, the PDGF signaling pathway, and the EGF receptor signaling pathway. Finally, a coexpression regulatory network was built with the key targets to further extrapolate the functional interactions of the targets and their coexpressed genes. Conclusion: Our results not only revealed potential biomarkers or targets for the diagnosis and treatment of HFMD, but also provided new insights to explore the mechanisms of EV71 and CA16 pathogenesis.
review-article	JIN296507	Monocytes and Macrophages Regulate Immunity through Dynamic Networks of Survival and Cell Death Monocytes and Macrophages Regulate Immunity through Dynamic Networks of Survival and Cell Death Monocytes and macrophages are central cells of the innate immune system, responsible for defending against diverse pathogens. While they originate from a common myeloid precursor and share functions in innate immunity, each has a very distinct life span finely tuned by the apoptotic caspases. Normally, circulating monocytes are short-lived and undergo spontaneous apoptosis on a daily basis. Macrophages, however, have a longer life span. In chronic inflammatory diseases and, as recently recognized, in the tumor microenvironment, the inhibition of the apoptotic program promotes monocyte survival contributing to the accumulation of macrophages and the persistence of an inflammatory milieu. A complex network of differentiation factors and inflammatory stimuli determine monocyte/macrophage life span by blocking the apoptotic pathway and activating a myriad of survival pathways. Our understanding of apoptosis has flourished over the last decade, and its relevance in the regulation of the immune system is now indisputable. Nevertheless, how the complicated networks of survival and apoptotic regulators are integrated to determine cellular life span remains elusive. This review summarizes the contribution of the caspases and their regulators in monocyte/macrophage cell fate and discusses how these molecules orchestrate the initiation, maintenance, and resolution of inflammation. More provocatively, we discuss possible strategies to control inflammation by manipulating leukocyte life span.
review-article	JIN296508	Dual Role of Heat Shock Proteins as Regulators of Apoptosis and Innate Immunity Dual Role of Heat Shock Proteins as Regulators of Apoptosis and Innate Immunity Stress or heat shock proteins (HSPs) 70 and 90 are powerful chaperones whose expression is induced in response to a wide variety of physiological and environmental insults. These proteins have different functions depending on their intracellular or extracellular location. Intracellular HSPs have a protective function. They allow the cells to survive potentially lethal conditions. The cytoprotective functions of HSPs can largely be explained by their anti-apoptotic properties. HSP70 and HSP90 can directly interact with different proteins of the tightly regulated programmed cell death machinery and thereby block the apoptotic process at distinct key points. In cancer cells, where the expression of HSP70 and/or HSP90 is frequently abnormally high, they participate in oncogenesis and in resistance to chemotherapy. Therefore, the inhibition of HSPs has become an interesting strategy in cancer therapy. In contrast to intracellular HSPs, extracellularly located or membrane-bound HSPs mediate immunological functions. They can elicit an immune response providing a link between innate and adaptive immune systems. In cancer, most immunotherapeutical approaches based on extracellular HSPs exploit their carrier function for immunogenic peptides. This review will focus on the roles of HSP70 and HSP90 in apoptosis and in innate immunity and how these functions are being exploited in cancer therapy.
review-article	JIN296915	Natural Killer T Cells and Atherosclerosis: Form and Function Meet Pathogenesis Natural Killer T Cells and Atherosclerosis: Form and Function Meet Pathogenesis Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by dyslipidemia and accumulation of lipids in the arterial intima, with activation of both innate and adaptive immunity. Reciprocally, dyslipidemia associated with atherosclerosis can perturb normal immune function. Natural killer T (NKT) cells are a specialized group of immune cells that share characteristics with both conventional T cells and natural killer cells. However, unlike these cells, NKT cells recognize glycolipid antigens and produce both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines upon activation. Because of these unique characteristics, NKT cells have recently been ascribed a role in the regulation of immunity and inflammation, including cardiovascular disease. In addition, NKT cells represent a bridge between dyslipidemia and immune regulation. This review summarizes the current knowledge of NKT cells and discusses the interplay between dyslipidemia and the normal functions of NKT cells and how this might modulate inflammation and atherosclerosis.
research-article	JIN346963	Viral Attachment Induces Rapid Recruitment of an Innate Immune Sensor (TRIM5α) to the Plasma Membrane Viral Attachment Induces Rapid Recruitment of an Innate Immune Sensor (TRIM5α) to the Plasma Membrane TRIM5α (tripartite motif 5α) acts as a pattern recognition receptor specific for the retrovirus capsid lattice and blocks infection by HIV-1 immediately after entry. However, the precise mechanisms underlying this rapid recognition of viral components remain elusive. Here, we analyzed the influence of viral exposure on TRIM5α. Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy and lipid flotation assays revealed rapid recruitment of a TRIM5α subpopulation to the plasma membrane (PM) upon exposure to vesicular stomatitis virus-G-pseudotyped HIV-1 viral-like particles (VLPs), but not to envelope (Env)-less HIV-1 VLPs. TRIM5α signals were frequently colocalized with those of HIV-1 capsid at the PM. Exposure to HIV-1 Env-pseudotyped HIV-1 vectors also triggered translocation of endogenous TRIM5α to lipid microdomains within human T cells. Similarly, clustering of lipid microdomains by a glycosphingolipid stereoisomer resulted in rapid TRIM5α recruitment to the PM. Of note, recruitment of endogenous rhesus TRIM5α to the PM prior to HIV-1 infection significantly increased the potency of viral restriction. Our data therefore suggest the importance of TRIM5α recruitment to the PM for TRIM5α-mediated innate immune sensing and restriction of retroviral infection.
research-article	JIN374115	Interleukin-17A Promotes Arginase-1 Production and 2,4-Dinitrochlorobenzene-Induced Acute Hyperinflammation in Human Papillomavirus E7 Oncoprotein-Expressing Skin Interleukin-17A Promotes Arginase-1 Production and 2,4-Dinitrochlorobenzene-Induced Acute Hyperinflammation in Human Papillomavirus E7 Oncoprotein-Expressing Skin Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) have evoked numerous mechanisms to subvert host innate immunity and establish a local immunosuppressive environment to facilitate persistent virus infection. Topical application of 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) was speculated to overcome this immunosuppressive environment and was employed in the immunotherapy of HPV-associated lesions. We have previously shown that DNCB treatment of skin expressing HPV16.E7 protein, the major oncogenic protein expressed in HPV-associated premalignant cervical epithelium, results in a hyperinflammatory response, with an associated induction of Th2 cytokines and infiltration of myeloid cells producing arginase-1, which also contributes to the hyperinflammation. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying arginase-1 induction and arginase-mediated hyperinflammation in K14.E7 skin have not been elucidated. Here, we show that HPV16.E7 protein expression as a transgene in skin is associated with enhanced IL-17A production by macrophages exposed to DNCB. Interestingly, induction of arginase-1 by DNCB is not seen in K14.E7 animals unable to express IL-17A. Further, blockade of either IL-17A or arginase activity alleviates DNCB-induced hyperinflammation through reduced recruitment of neutrophils, as a consequence of decreased CXCL1 and CXCL5 chemokine production. Thus, our findings suggest that increased IL-17A expression by macrophages in E7-expressing skin exposed to DNCB promotes arginase-1 induction and contributes directly to the observed hyperinflammation.
review-article	JIN452669	Role of MicroRNA in the Lung's Innate Immune Response Role of MicroRNA in the Lung's Innate Immune Response The immune response to respiratory pathogens must be robust enough to defend the host yet properly constrained such that inflammation-induced tissue damage is avoided. MicroRNA (miRNA) are small noncoding RNA which posttranscriptionally influence gene expression. In this review, we discuss recent experimental evidence of the contribution of miRNA to the lung's response to bacterial and viral pathogens.
review-article	JIN453397	Cellular Innate Immunity: An Old Game with New Players Cellular Innate Immunity: An Old Game with New Players Innate immunity is a rapidly evolving field with novel cell types and molecular pathways being discovered and paradigms changing continuously. Innate and adaptive immune responses are traditionally viewed as separate from each other, but emerging evidence suggests that they overlap and mutually interact. Recently discovered cell types, particularly innate lymphoid cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells, are gaining increasing attention. Here, we summarize and highlight current concepts in the field, focusing on innate immune cells as well as the inflammasome and DNA sensing which appear to be critical for the activation and orchestration of innate immunity, and may provide novel therapeutic opportunities for treating autoimmune, autoinflammatory, and infectious diseases.
meta-analysis	JIN457902	Searching for a Lifeline: Transcriptome Profiling Studies of Influenza Susceptibility and Resistance Searching for a Lifeline: Transcriptome Profiling Studies of Influenza Susceptibility and Resistance Excess or dysregulated host inflammatory responses cause much of the morbidity and mortality caused by severe influenza. Given the limitations of vaccines and antiviral drugs, novel therapeutics to modulate host responses and improve outcomes in severe influenza are needed. One strategy is to learn from the direct comparison of high-survivor versus high-mortality animal models. This review surveys the results of lung transcriptome profiling studies in murine models that directly compare susceptible versus resistant hosts challenged with identical influenza infections. The potential contributions and limitations of these studies are discussed. To amplify their power, the studies are subjected to a meta-analysis, which helps identify frequently dysregulated pathways and potentially novel areas for investigation. Using connectivity map-based tools (LINCS), transcriptome signatures linked to susceptibility can identify candidate drugs that merit testing for in vivo efficacy.
systematic-review	JNN334853	Inclusion and Exclusion in Nutrigenetics Clinical Research: Ethical and Scientific Challenges Inclusion and Exclusion in Nutrigenetics Clinical Research: Ethical and Scientific Challenges Background/Aims: There are compelling reasons to ensure the participation of ethnic minorities and populations of all ages worldwide in nutrigenetics clinical research. If findings in such research are valid for some individuals, groups, or communities, and not for others, then ethical questions of justice – and not only issues of methodology and external validity – arise. This paper aims to examine inclusion in nutrigenetics clinical research and its scientific and ethical challenges. Methods: In total, 173 publications were identified through a systematic review of clinical studies in nutrigenetics published between 1998 and 2007. Data such as participants’ demographics as well as eligibility criteria were extracted. Results: There is no consistency in the way participants’ origins (ancestry, ethnicity, or race) and ages are described in publications. A vast majority of the studies identified was conducted in North America and Europe and focused on ‘white’ participants. Our results show that pregnant women (and fetuses), minors, and the elderly (≧75 years old) remain underrepresented. Conclusion: Representativeness in nutrigenetics research is a challenging ethical and scientific issue. Yet, if nutrigenetics is to benefit whole populations and be used in public and global health agendas, fair representation as well as clear descriptions of participants in publications are crucial.
research-article	JNN348839	"Nutritional Genetics: The Case of Alcohol and the MTHFR C677T Polymorphism in Relation to Homocysteine in a Black South African Population Nutritional Genetics: The Case of Alcohol and the MTHFR C677T Polymorphism in Relation to Homocysteine in a Black South African Population Background/Aims: It is unknown whether the effect of alcohol consumption on homocysteine (Hcy) is modulated by the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T. We explored this hypothesized effect by analyzing cross-sectional data of 1,827 black South Africans. Methods: Total Hcy concentrations were determined by fluorescence polarization immunoassay and the genotype through polymerase chain reaction-based RFLP analysis. Results: Subjects harboring the 677 TT genotype had the highest Hcy. Among subjects harboring the 677 CC genotype, men had higher Hcy (p = 0.04). Age and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) correlated best (r = 0.26 and r = 0.27; p &lt; 0.05), while the percentage carbohydrate-deficient transferrin and the B vitamins correlated weakly (r &lt; 0.1; p &lt; 0.05) with Hcy. Hcy was positively associated with the reported alcohol intake (p ≤ 0.01). There was no interaction between alcohol consumption and the MTHFR 677 CC or CT genotypes (p &gt; 0.05) for Hcy concentrations; however, an interaction was determined for GGT and the MTHFR genotype (p = 0.02). Age, GGT, gender, MTHFR and vitamin B6 explained 16.8% of the variation in Hcy (p &lt; 0.01). Conclusion: The determined interactions might result in differences in the risk conveyed through Hcy with regard to disease development in those with unfavorable GGT concentrations."
research-article	JNN371743	An Intervention Study of Individual, apoE Genotype-Based Dietary and Physical-Activity Advice: Impact on Health Behavior An Intervention Study of Individual, apoE Genotype-Based Dietary and Physical-Activity Advice: Impact on Health Behavior Aim: To assess the behavioral effects of receiving personal genetic information, using apoE genotypes as a tool for promoting lifestyle changes. apoE was chosen because it has a significant impact on lipid metabolism and cholesterol absorption, both factors in cardiovascular disease. Methods: This study was a 1-year intervention study of healthy adults aged 20-67 years (n = 107). Their behavioral changes were measured by diet (e.g., fat quality, as well as consumption of vegetables, berries, fruits, and fatty and sugary foods), alcohol consumption, and exercise. Health and taste attitudes were assessed with the Health and Taste Attitude Scales (HTAS). The measurements were performed 4 times: at baseline (T0), as well as 10 weeks (T1), 6 months (T2), and 12 months after baseline (T3). These behavioral effects were assessed for three groups: a high-risk (&
meta-analysis	JNN455914	Common Variants of Vitamin D Receptor Gene Polymorphisms and Susceptibility to Coronary Artery Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Common Variants of Vitamin D Receptor Gene Polymorphisms and Susceptibility to Coronary Artery Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background and Aims:ApaI, FokI, TaqI, and BsmI polymorphisms in the vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene have been reported to be associated with the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD), although the results of previous studies have been inconsistent. The aim of this study was to explore whether these polymorphisms play a role in the genetic susceptibility to CAD. Methods: A comprehensive search of Medline and Embase databases was conducted for studies evaluating the association between the VDR polymorphisms and CAD risk. Odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals were calculated to assess the strength of association in the dominant model, recessive model, allelic model, and genotypes contrast. Results: Nine studies involving a total of 5,259 cases and 1,981 controls were finally included in this meta-analysis. Overall, no significant associations were found between ApaI, FokI, TaqI, and BsmI polymorphisms and the risk of CAD in any of the genetic models (all p &
meta-analysis	JNN480636	Sulforaphane and Epigallocatechin Gallate Restore Estrogen Receptor Expression by Modulating Epigenetic Events in the Breast Cancer Cell Line MDA-MB-231: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Sulforaphane and Epigallocatechin Gallate Restore Estrogen Receptor Expression by Modulating Epigenetic Events in the Breast Cancer Cell Line MDA-MB-231: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Epigenetics refers to modifications in gene activity and expression without alteration at the DNA sequence. Environment and diet could influence gene expression. Diet modifications may be meaningful in preventing and treating chronic diseases, cancer included. Dietary bioactive compounds, such as polyphenols (e.g., curcumin, resveratrol, or epigallocatechin gallate [EGCG]) or isothiocyanate (e.g., sulforaphane [SFN]), can regulate histone acetylation. The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate the effect of SFN and EGCG on breast cancer (BC) cells cultured in vitro. Methods: Due to the enormous variability observed in study protocols and the innumerable genes involved, only studies analyzing the number of apoptotic cells in the MDA-MB-231 cell line were evaluated. The effect size (ES) was computed as the ratio of means. Results: We identified 7 studies, 4 regarding the effect of 10 µM SFN on MDA-MB-231 cells (ES = 4.59, 95% confidence interval 4.05-5.20) and 3 focusing on the impact of 20 µM EGCG (ES = 2.84, 95% confidence interval 2.60-3.10). Conclusion: The findings suggest beneficial effects of dietary bioactive compounds such as SFN and EGCG and their effect on BC cells by restoring estrogen receptor gene expression, modulating epigenetic changes and events, and interfering with tumor growth rate. Publication bias limits the generalizability of the conclusions. High-quality studies are needed.
review-article	JVR449061	Notch4 Signaling Pathway of Endothelial Progenitor Cells in a Kawasaki Disease Model Induced by Lactobacillus casei Cell Wall Extract Notch4 Signaling Pathway of Endothelial Progenitor Cells in a Kawasaki Disease Model Induced by Lactobacillus casei Cell Wall Extract The Notch4 signaling pathway of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) may play a crucial role in Kawasaki disease (KD). We investigated the proliferation, adhesion, migration, angiogenesis, and expression levels of Notch4, recombination signal-binding protein-J&
review-article	JVR452800	"Alveolar Hypoxia-Induced Pulmonary Inflammation: From Local Initiation to Secondary Promotion by Activated Systemic Inflammation Alveolar Hypoxia-Induced Pulmonary Inflammation: From Local Initiation to Secondary Promotion by Activated Systemic Inflammation Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a pathological condition with high mortality and morbidity. Hypoxic PH (HPH) is a common form of PH occurring mainly due to lung disease and/or hypoxia. Most causes of HPH are associated with persistent or intermittent alveolar hypoxia, including exposure to high altitude and chronic obstructive respiratory disease. Recent evidence suggests that inflammation is a critical step for HPH initiation and development. A detailed understanding of the initiation and progression of pulmonary inflammation would help in exploring potential clinical treatments for HPH. In this review, the mechanism for alveolar hypoxia-induced local lung inflammation and its progression are discussed as follows: (1) low alveolar PO2 levels activate resident lung cells, mainly the alveolar macrophages, which initiate pulmonary inflammation; (2) systemic inflammation is induced by alveolar hypoxia through alveolar macrophage activation; (3) monocytes are recruited into the pulmonary circulation by alveolar hypoxia-induced macrophage activation, which then contributes to the progression of pulmonary inflammation during the chronic phase of alveolar hypoxia, and (4) alveolar hypoxia-induced systemic inflammation contributes to the development of HPH. We hypothesize that a combination of alveolar hypoxia-induced local lung inflammation and the initiation of systemic inflammation (“second hit”) is essential for HPH progression."
review-article	JVR493151	"Evaluation of Notch3 Deficiency in Diabetes-Induced Pericyte Loss in the Retina Evaluation of Notch3 Deficiency in Diabetes-Induced Pericyte Loss in the Retina Loss of vascular pericytes has long been associated with the onset of diabetic retinopathy; however, mechanisms contributing to pericyte dropout are not understood. Notch3 has been implicated in pericyte stability and survival, and linked to vascular integrity. Notch3 mutant mice exhibit progressive loss of retinal pericytes. Given that diabetic retinopathy is associated with pericyte loss, we sought to determine whether perturbation of Notch3 signaling contributes to diabetes-induced pericyte dropout and capillary degeneration. We utilized a pericyte-expressed LacZ transgene (XlacZ4) to examine pericyte loss in retinas of a type I diabetic mouse model (Ins2Akita) and Notch3-deficient mice. Notch3 null animals showed a dramatic loss of the LacZ marker by 8 weeks of age, while Ins2Akita diabetic and Notch3 heterozygous mice exhibited a much slower and subtler loss of LacZ. Although combined Notch3 heterozygosity in Ins2Akita diabetic animals did not show further deficits, the trypsin digest method revealed that Notch3 haploinsufficiency increased the formation of acellular capillaries in diabetic mice. Our data further indicate that Notch signaling is blunted in diabetic retinas and in cells exposed to hyperglycemia. These results are the first to demonstrate an association between Notch3 signaling, pericyte loss, and diabetic retinopathy."
review-article	KBR302712	Alterations of Lipid Metabolism in Chronic Nephropathies: Mechanisms, Diagnosis and Treatment Alterations of Lipid Metabolism in Chronic Nephropathies: Mechanisms, Diagnosis and Treatment Nephropathic subjects show an increased tendency to develop cardiovascular diseases, mainly as the consequence of several risk factors including increased oxidative stress, inflammation, physical inactivity, anemia, vascular calcification, and endothelial dysfunction. The alterations in lipid metabolism represent a relatively lesser important cause of genesis and progression of atherosclerosis. Unfortunately, in these patients the atherogenic potential of dyslipidemia may depend more on apolipoproteins than on lipid abnormalities, and may not always be recognized by measurement of plasma lipids alone. The aim of this review was therefore to analyze the main lipid alterations that can occur in nephropathic patients, as well as their causes and their effects on the cardiovascular system. The clinical evidence and recommendations for the use of lipid-regulating drugs in patients with chronic kidney disease, nephrotic syndrome, in patients undergoing hemo- and peritoneal dialysis and in transplanted patients was also reviewed. Moreover, we analyzed the link between dyslipidemia and kidney disease onset and progression and the role of statins in preventing it.
systematic-review	KBR368456	"Evening -Versus Morning- Dosing Drug Therapy for Chronic Kidney Disease Patients with Hypertension: A Systematic Review Evening -Versus Morning- Dosing Drug Therapy for Chronic Kidney Disease Patients with Hypertension: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: There is a strong correlation between non-dipping status and cardiovascular events in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. Our study is designed to identify the effect of evening administration of antihypertensive drugs to hypertensive CKD patients. Methods: A comprehensive search of Medline, Embase, the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, Wanfang Data, Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials was performed in July 2014. Concurrent controlled or crossover trials (including randomized and non-randomized experimental trials) designed to evaluate the effects of evening- versus morning-dosing hypertensive drug regimens on clinical outcomes in CKD patients with hypertension were included. All statistical analyses were performed using the RevMan software, which is available free from the Cochrane Collaboration. Results: Seven trials involving 1277 patients were identified, and the randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and non-randomized controlled trials (non-RCTs) were classified into two groups. Taking at least one blood pressure-lowering medication at bedtime was not shown to reduce total death (P=0.056) or cardiovascular death (P=0.059) but was shown to reduce total events (P&lt;0.001) and major cardiovascular events (P&lt;0.001) in both RCTs and non-RCTs. Compared with a morning dosing regimen, taking antihypertensive drug in the evening significantly lowered nighttime systolic blood pressure (SBP) (P&lt;0.0001) and diastolic blood pressure (P&lt;0.05) in patients in the RCTs but did not affect blood pressure in patients in the non-RCTs (P&lt;0.05). There is limited evidence from one non-RCT that taking an antihypertensive drug (benazepril 10 mg) in the evening did not increase adverse events (P=0.72) or withdrawals due to adverse events (P=0.64). Conclusions: A regimen of antihypertensive drugs in the evening should be considered for CKD patients with hypertension to lower nighttime blood pressure and help prevent total events and cardiovascular mortality. More studies are needed to verify the results of this study. i 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel"
research-article	KBR368482	"The Enhancement of Cx45 Expression and Function in Renal Interlobar Artery of Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats at Different Age The Enhancement of Cx45 Expression and Function in Renal Interlobar Artery of Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats at Different Age Background/Aims: This study was designed to investigate the expression and function of gap junction protein connexin 45 (Cx45) in renal interlobar artery (RIA) of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), and the association between hypertension and enhanced vasoconstrictive response in SHR. Methods: Western blot analysis and pressure myography were used to examine the differences in expression and function of Cx45 in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) of RIA between SHR and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Results: Our results demonstrated that 1) whole-cell patch clamp measurements showed that the membrane capacitance and conductance of in-situ RIA VSMCs of SHR were significantly greater than those of WKY rats (p&lt;0.05, n=6), suggesting that the coupling of gap junction between VSMCs of RIA was enhanced in SHR; 2) the KCl or phenylephrine (PE)-stimulated RIA constriction was more pronounced in SHR than that in WKY rats (p&lt;0.05, n=10). After applying a gap junction inhibitor 18β-glycyrrhetintic acid (18β-GA), the inhibitory effect of 18β-GA on KCl or PE-induced vasoconstriction was greater in SHR (p&lt;0.05, n=10); and 3) the expression of Cx45 in RIA of SHR was greater than that in WKY rats (p&lt;0.05, n=3) at 4, 12 and 48 wks of age. Conclusions: The hypertension-induced elevation of Cx45 may affect communication between VSMCs and coupling between VSMCs and endothelium, which results in an increased vasoconstrictive response in renal artery and might contribute to the development of hypertension."
meta-analysis	KBR443456	"Empirically Derived Dietary Patterns and Hypertension Likelihood: A Meta-Analysis Empirically Derived Dietary Patterns and Hypertension Likelihood: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Dietary patterns, which represent whole-diet and a complex integration of food and nutrient, have been reported to play an important role in the development of hypertension. However, the results have yielded conflicting findings. Herein, we performed this meta-analysis to evaluate the associations between different dietary patterns and the likelihood of hypertension. Methods: MEDLINE and EBSCO were searched to identify relevant articles published until the end of March 2016. A random-effects model was used to account for possible heterogeneity between studies.A total of twenty-seven studies met the inclusion criteria and were included in this meta-analysis. Results: There was evidence of a decreased likelihood for hypertension in the highest compared with the lowest categories of healthy pattern (odds ratio (OR)=0.81; 95% confidence interval(CI): 0.67-0.97; P=0.02). An increased likelihood of hypertension was shown for the highest compared with the lowest category of heavy drinking pattern (OR=1.62; 95% CI: 1.16-2.26; P=0.004), whereas no statistically significant association with western-style and light-moderate drinking pattern were observed(OR=1.04, 95% CI: 0.83-1.31; OR=1.20, 95% CI:0.94- 1.53; P&gt;0.05). Conclusions: Our results of this systematic review and meta-analysis suggest that dietary pattern may be associated with the likelihood of hypertension."
meta-analysis	KBR450567	Global Overexpression of ET-1 Decreases Blood Pressure - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of ET-1 Transgenic Mice Global Overexpression of ET-1 Decreases Blood Pressure - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of ET-1 Transgenic Mice Background/Aims: ET-1 has independent effects on blood pressure regulation in vivo, it is involved in tubular water and salt excretion, promotes constriction of smooth muscle cells, modulates sympathetic nerve activity, and activates the liberation of nitric oxide. To determine the net effect of these partially counteracting mechanisms on blood pressure, a systematic meta-analysis was performed. Methods: Based on the principles of Cochrane systematic reviews, we searched in major literature databases - MEDLINE (PubMed), Embase, Google Scholar, and the China Biological Medicine Database (CBM-disc) - for articles relevant to the topic of the blood pressure phenotype of endothelin-1 transgenic (ET-1+/+) mice from January 1, 1988 to March 31, 2016. Review Manager Version 5.0 (Rev-Man 5.0) software was applied for statistical analysis. In total thirteen studies reported blood pressure data. Results: The meta-analysis of blood pressure data showed that homozygous ET-1 transgenic mice (ET-1+/+ mice) had a significantly lower blood pressure as compared to WT mice (mean difference: -2.57 mmHg, 95% CI: -4.98∼ -0.16, P = 0.04), with minimal heterogeneity (P = 0.86). A subgroup analysis of mice older than 6 months revealed that the blood pressure difference between ET-1+/+ mice and WT mice was even more pronounced (mean difference: -6.19 mmHg, 95% CI: -10.76∼ -1.62, P = 0.008), with minimal heterogeneity (P = 0.91). Conclusion: This meta-analysis provides robust evidence that global ET-1 overexpression in mice lowers blood pressure in an age-dependent manner. Older ET-1+/+ mice have a somewhat more pronounced reduction of blood pressure.
meta-analysis	KBR452593	Clinical Utility of Serum Cystatin C in Predicting Diabetic Nephropathy Among Patients with Diabetes Mellitus: a Meta-Analysis Clinical Utility of Serum Cystatin C in Predicting Diabetic Nephropathy Among Patients with Diabetes Mellitus: a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Clinically, there is lack of predictors for diabetic nephropathy (DN) in diabetes mellitus (DM) without microalbuminuria, macroalbuminuria or retinopathy. Methods: PubMed, Chinese Biomedical Database, Cochrane Library, EMBASE and Elsevier Database were searched from inception to August 13, 2016. Studies involving patients with DM and containing data on cystatin C measurements and the measured glomerular filtration rate (mGFR) were included. Pooled sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and other diagnostic indices were evaluated using a random effect model. Results: The meta-analysis enrolled 9 studies with 1417 patients. The pooled sensitivity and specificity of serum cystatin C for predicting DN were 0.88 (95% CI 0.85 - 0.91) and 0.85 (95% CI 0.82 - 0.87), respectively. The pooled positive and negative predictive values of serum cystatin C for predicting DN were 7.04 (95% CI 4.33 - 11.43) and 0.13 (95% CI 0.09 - 0.20), respectively. The area under the summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) curve was 0.9549, and the diagnostic odds ratio was 66.80 (95% CI 27.92 - 159.86). Conclusion: Serum cystatin C is an early predictor of DN among patients with DM.
meta-analysis	KBR488700	Effect of Lanthanum Carbonate on All-Cause Mortality in Patients Receiving Maintenance Hemodialysis: a Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Effect of Lanthanum Carbonate on All-Cause Mortality in Patients Receiving Maintenance Hemodialysis: a Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background/Aims: Hyperphosphatemia is common in patients on hemodialysis. The efficacy of lanthanum carbonate (LC) in the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in these patients remains controversial. The objective of this meta-analysis was to evaluate the effect of LC on all-cause mortality in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. Methods: We electronically searched the PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library databases for all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing LC with other phosphate binders used in adult hemodialysis patients, including calcium carbonate, calcium acetate, and sevelamer. Results: Nine RCTs involving 2813 patients were suitable for inclusion. Our results showed that all-cause mortality was significantly lower in patients who received LC than in those who received standard therapy (odds ratio [OR]: 0.45, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.32–0.63, P&
meta-analysis	KBR489913	"Effects of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors and Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers on All-Cause Mortality and Renal Outcomes in Patients with Diabetes and Albuminuria: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effects of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors and Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers on All-Cause Mortality and Renal Outcomes in Patients with Diabetes and Albuminuria: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Whether angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB) could benefit patients with diabetes and albuminuria remains controversial. A systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted to answer this question by comparing ACE inhibitors or ARB with placebo among these patients. Methods: In this meta-analysis, electronic data sources (Medline, the Cochrane Collaboration, and EMBASE) were searched. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ACE inhibitors or ARB with placebo in subjects with diabetes and albuminuria (defined as urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio, UACR≥30mg/g Cr) were included. Outcomes parameters were all-cause mortality, end stage renal disease (ESRD), doubling of serum creatinine levels, and cardiovascular events (CV). Results: Twenty-six RCTs (including 20 for ACE inhibitors and 6 for ARB) were included, comprising 10378 participants with diabetes and albuminuria. Compared to placebo, treatment with ACE inhibitors or ARBs did not reduce all-cause mortality or CV. For renal outcomes, ARBs significantly reduced the risk of ESRD by 23% (odds ratio 0.77, 95%CI 0.65-0.92), while ACE inhibitors were not associated with a decreased risk of ESRD (0.69, 0.43-1.10). Both ACE inhibitors and ARBs reduced the risk of doubling of the serum creatinine level (0.60, 0.39-0.91 for ACE inhibitors; 0.75, 0.64-0.88 for ARBs), and subgroup analyses for patients with macroalbuminuria or microalbuminuria showed similar results. Conclusion: In patients with diabetes and albuminuria, ARBs reduced risks of ESRD and doubling of the serum creatinine level. ACE inhibitors and ARBs failed to reduce all-cause mortality and CV. Based on the renoprotective effects, ARBs may be preferred for diabetic patients with albuminuria."
research-article	KBR495639	"Hemodialysis or Peritoneal Dialysis, Which Is Better for Patients with Delayed Graft Function? Hemodialysis or Peritoneal Dialysis, Which Is Better for Patients with Delayed Graft Function? Background/Aims: Hemodialysis (HD) or peritoneal dialysis (PD) is an important renal replacement method in patients with delayed graft function (DGF) after kidney transplantation; however, it is not clear which dialysis modality is superior. This study determined the impact of different dialysis modalities on patients with DGF. Methods: It was a single-center, retrospective and descriptive study. We performed 673 kidney transplants from donors after cardiac death (DCD) between January 2010 and December 2016 at our center and 138 (20.5%) recipients developed DGF after transplantation. We classified the recipients into two groups according to post-transplant dialysis: DGF-HD (n=96) and DGF-PD (n=42). We analyzed the outcomes of the different dialysis modalities 30 days and 1 year post-transplantation. Results: There were no differences in baseline factors between patients with post-transplant HD (n = 96) or PD (n = 42). There were 10 patients with conversion from PD to HD during DGF. The DGF-PD patients had a higher rate of treatment failure than the DGF-HD patients (23.8% vs. 0%, p &"
review-article	KDD453028	Disorders of Acid-Base Balance: New Perspectives Disorders of Acid-Base Balance: New Perspectives Background: Disorders of acid-base involve the complex interplay of many organ systems including brain, lungs, kidney, and liver. Compensations for acid-base disturbances within the brain are more complete, while limitations of compensations are more apparent for most systemic disorders. However, some of the limitations on compensations are necessary to survival, in that preservation of oxygenation, energy balance, cognition, electrolyte, and fluid balance are connected mechanistically. Summary: This review aims to give new and comprehensive perspective on understanding acid-base balance and identifying associated disorders. All metabolic acid-base disorders can be approached in the context of the relative losses or gains of electrolytes or a change in the anion gap in body fluids. Acid-base and electrolyte balance are connected not only at the cellular level but also in daily clinical practice. Urine chemistry is essential to understanding electrolyte excretion and renal compensations. Key Messages: Many constructs are helpful to understand acid-base, but these models are not mutually exclusive. Electroneutrality and the close interconnection between electrolyte and acid-base balance are important concepts to apply in acid-base diagnoses. All models have complexity and shortcuts that can help in practice. There is no reason to dismiss any of the present constructs, and there is benefit in a combined approach.
review-article	KDD478781	New Findings on the Pathogenesis of Distal Renal Tubular Acidosis New Findings on the Pathogenesis of Distal Renal Tubular Acidosis Background: Distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) is characterized by an impairment of the urinary acidification process in the distal nephron. Complete or incomplete metabolic acidosis coupled with inappropriately alkaline urine are the hallmarks of this condition. Genetic forms of dRTA are caused by loss of function mutations of either SLC4A1, encoding the AE1 anion exchanger, or ATP6V1B1 and ATP6V0A4, encoding for the B1 and a4 subunits of the vH+ATPase, respectively. These genes are crucial for the function of A-type intercalated cells (A-IC) of the distal nephron. Summary: Alterations of acid-base homeostasis are variably associated with hypokalemia, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis or nephrolithiasis, and a salt-losing phenotype. Here we report the diagnostic test and the underlying physiopathological mechanisms. The molecular mechanisms identified so far can explain the defect in acid secretion, but do not explain all clinical features. We review the latest experimental findings on the pathogenesis of dRTA, reporting mechanisms that are instrumental for the clinician and potentially inspiring a novel therapeutic strategy. Key Message: Primary dRTA is usually intended as a single-cell disease because the A-IC are mainly affected. However, novel evidence shows that different cell types of the nephron may contribute to the signs and symptoms, moving the focus from a single-cell towards a renal disease.
review-article	KDD492932	Progress in the Development and Challenges for the Use of Artificial Kidneys and Wearable Dialysis Devices Progress in the Development and Challenges for the Use of Artificial Kidneys and Wearable Dialysis Devices Background: Renal transplantation is the treatment of choice for chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients, but the shortage of kidneys and the disabling medical conditions these patients suffer from make dialysis essential for most of them. Since dialysis drastically affects the patients’ lifestyle, there are great expectations for the development of wearable artificial kidneys, although their use is currently impeded by major concerns about safety. On the other hand, dialysis patients with hemodynamic instability do not usually tolerate intermittent dialysis therapy because of their inability to adapt to a changing scenario of unforeseen events. Thus, the development of novel wearable dialysis devices and the improvement of clinical tolerance will need contributions from new branches of engineering such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) for the real-time analysis of equipment alarms, dialysis parameters, and patient-related data with a real-time feedback response. These technologies are endowed with abilities normally associated with human intelligence such as learning, problem solving, human speech understanding, or planning and decision-making. Examples of common applications of AI are visual perception (computer vision), speech recognition, and language translation. In this review, we discuss recent progresses in the area of dialysis and challenges for the use of AI in the development of artificial kidneys. Summary and Key Messages: Emerging technologies derived from AI, ML, electronics, and robotics will offer great opportunities for dialysis therapy, but much innovation is needed before we achieve a smart dialysis machine able to analyze and understand changes in patient homeostasis and to respond appropriately in real time. Great efforts are being made in the fields of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine to provide alternative cell-based approaches for the treatment of renal failure, including bioartificial renal systems and the implantation of bioengineered kidney constructs.
review-article	KDD493478	Blood Pressure Assessment with Differential Pulse Transit Time and Deep Learning: A Proof of Concept Blood Pressure Assessment with Differential Pulse Transit Time and Deep Learning: A Proof of Concept Background: Modern clinical environments are laden with technology devices continuously gathering physiological data from patients. This is especially true in critical care environments, where life-saving decisions may have to be made on the basis of signals from monitoring devices. Hemodynamic monitoring is essential in dialysis, surgery, and in critically ill patients. For the most severe patients, blood pressure is normally assessed through a catheter, which is an invasive procedure that may result in adverse effects. Blood pressure can also be monitored noninvasively through different methods and these data can be used for the continuous assessment of pressure using machine learning methods. Previous studies have found pulse transit time to be related to blood pressure. In this short paper, we propose to study the feasibility of implementing a data-driven model based on restricted Boltzmann machine artificial neural networks, delivering a first proof of concept for the validity and viability of a method for blood pressure prediction based on these models. Summary and Key Messages: For the most severe patients (e.g., dialysis, surgery, and the critically ill), blood pressure is normally assessed through invasive catheters. Alternatively, noninvasive methods have also been developed for its monitorization. Data obtained from noninvasive measurements can be used for the continuous assessment of pressure using machine learning methods. In this study, a restricted Boltzmann machine artificial neural network is used to present a first proof of concept for the validity and viability of a method for blood pressure prediction.
systematic-review	LFG488086	"A Systematic Review of Genetic Testing and Lifestyle Behaviour Change: Are We Using High-Quality Genetic Interventions and Considering Behaviour Change Theory? A Systematic Review of Genetic Testing and Lifestyle Behaviour Change: Are We Using High-Quality Genetic Interventions and Considering Behaviour Change Theory? Background: Studying the impact of genetic testing interventions on lifestyle behaviour change has been a priority area of research in recent years. Substantial heterogeneity exists in the results and conclusions of this literature, which has yet to be explained using validated behaviour change theory and an assessment of the quality of genetic interventions. The theory of planned behaviour (TPB) helps to explain key contributors to behaviour change. It has been hypothesized that personalization could be added to this theory to help predict changes in health behaviours. Purpose: This systematic review provides a detailed, comprehensive identification, assessment, and summary of primary research articles pertaining to lifestyle behaviour change (nutrition, physical activity, sleep, and smoking) resulting from genetic testing interventions. The present review further aims to provide in-depth analyses of studies conducted to date within the context of the TPB and the quality of genetic interventions provided to participants while aiming to determine whether or not genetic testing facilitates changes in lifestyle habits. This review is timely in light of a recently published “call-to-action” paper, highlighting the need to incorporate the TPB into personalized healthcare behaviour change research. Methods: Three bibliographic databases, one key website, and article reference lists were searched for relevant primary research articles. The PRISMA Flow Diagram and PRISMA Checklist were used to guide the search strategy and manuscript preparation. Out of 32,783 titles retrieved, 26 studies met the inclusion criteria. Three quality assessments were conducted and included: (1) risk of bias, (2) quality of genetic interventions, and (3) consideration of theoretical underpinnings – primarily the TPB. Results: Risk of bias in studies was overall rated to be “fair.” Consideration of the TPB was “poor,” with no study making reference to this validated theory. While some studies (n = 11; 42%) made reference to other behaviour change theories, these theories were generally mentioned briefly, and were not thoroughly incorporated into the study design or analyses. The genetic interventions provided to participants were overall of “poor” quality. However, a separate analysis of studies using controlled intervention research methods demonstrated the use of higher-quality genetic interventions (overall rated to be “fair”). The provision of actionable recommendations informed by genetic testing was more likely to facilitate behaviour change than the provision of genetic information without actionable lifestyle recommendations. Several studies of good quality demonstrated changes in lifestyle habits arising from the provision of genetic interventions. The most promising lifestyle changes were changes in nutrition. Conclusions: It is possible to facilitate behaviour change using genetic testing as the catalyst. Future research should ensure that high-quality genetic interventions are provided to participants, and should consider validated theories such as the TPB in their study design and analyses. Further recommendations for future research are provided."
systematic-review	LIC343828	"Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Systematic Review Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Systematic Review Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies, with an increasing incidence. With advances in surgical techniques and instrumentation and the development of molecular-target drugs, a number of potentially curative treatments have become available. Management of HCC patients depends on the stage of their tumor. Liver resection remains the first choice for very early-stage HCC, but it is being challenged by local ablative therapy. For early-stage HCC that meet the Milan criteria, liver transplantation still offers a better outcome; however, local ablative therapy can be a substitute when transplantation is not feasible. Local ablation is also used as a bridging therapy toward liver transplantation. HCC recurrence is the main obstacle to successful treatment, and there is currently no effective means of preventing or treating HCC recurrence. Transarterial therapy is considered suitable for intermediate-stage HCC, while sorafenib is recommended for advanced-stage HCC. This stage-based approach to therapy not only provides acceptable outcomes but also improves the quality of life of HCC patients. Because of the complexity of HCC, therapeutic approaches &"
research-article	LIC343877	"Insufficient Ablative Margin Determined by Early Computed Tomography May Predict the Recurrence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma after Radiofrequency Ablation Insufficient Ablative Margin Determined by Early Computed Tomography May Predict the Recurrence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma after Radiofrequency Ablation Tumor recurrence in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients after radiofrequency ablation (RFA) remains common; some studies have reported that insufficient ablative margin after RFA might contribute to HCC recurrence. The aim of this study was to investigate whether insufficient ablative safety margins determined by early computed tomography (CT) predicts HCC recurrence after RFA. This retrospective study recruited patients with a single HCC lesion after RFA in our department between May 2013 and March 2014. Early follow-up CT was performed within 7 days after RFA. An adequate ablative margin assessed by follow-up CT was defined as (maximum post-RFA CT radius)3/(maximum pre-RFA CT radius + 5 mm)3&gt; 1. All patients in whom complete ablation was achieved underwent a CT scan every 3 months for early detection of HCC recurrence. In total, 72 patients (48 male, mean age 69.4 years) were analyzed. Of these, eight patients had local tumor progression, four had intra-hepatic distant recurrence, and two had extra-hepatic metastasis. Insufficient ablative margin, defined as an ablative volume with a safety margin of less than 5 mm, was an important predictor of local tumor progression (LTP) (p = 0.015) and overall recurrence (p = 0.012). The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of an insufficient ablative margin for predicting LTP and overall recurrence were 36.4%, 97.2%, 50.0%, and 87.9%, and 46.2%, 89.7%, 42.9%, and 87.9%, respectively. An ablative volume with an ablative margin of less than 5 mm is associated with higher rates of both LTP and overall recurrence in HCC after RFA."
research-article	LIC367729	"Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma in the Community: Disparities in Standard Therapy Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma in the Community: Disparities in Standard Therapy Background and Aims: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence is expected to rise dramatically over the next decades because of increasing hepatitis C infections and obesity-related comorbidities. However, little information exists regarding the treatment of patients with HCC in the community setting. The purpose of this article was to characterize patterns of diagnosis, treatment, and survival for HCC in the community. Methods: We identified 946 HCC patients in the 2007 National Cancer Institute's Patterns of Care study. Chi-square analyses and multivariable regression were used to examine patient and provider factors associated with treatment and survival by stage at diagnosis. Results: Our primary findings indicate that liver transplants, embolization, or radiofrequency ablation for Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage A patients were performed significantly less often for non-Hispanic blacks, Hispanics, patients in the highest income quartile, and patients with Medicaid. Patients with stage D disease were less likely to receive cancer therapy if they had Medicaid insurance compared to private insurance (p&lt;0.001 for all). In multivariable analyses, all-cause mortality was associated with treatment in a hospital without a residency training program (hazard ratio [HR] 1.4 [1.1,1.9]), more advanced stage (HR: 10.6 [5.7, 19.5] stage D vs. A), and lack of appropriate treatment (HR: 2.4 [1.9,3.2]). Conclusions: This is the first population-based study to evaluate therapy provided for HCC in the community. Current therapy depended on patients' HCC stage at diagnosis and other clinical and demographic factors. Overall, our study identifies those least likely to receive specific therapies in a variety of health care settings and can inform strategies for promoting appropriate therapy now and as new agents are developed."
review-article	LIC449343	Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Therapeutic Guidelines and Medical Treatment Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Therapeutic Guidelines and Medical Treatment Western and Eastern perspectives on therapeutic guidelines for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have many commonalities but may also differ in certain aspects, as described in this article. In view of the limited therapeutic options for advanced HCC, evidence-based therapies are few, and thus there is a dependence on consensus-based guidelines. This article focuses on the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver guidelines and the Japanese approaches to therapy, while drawing attention to certain controversies from other academic bodies where applicable and appropriate.
review-article	LIC449344	Surgery and Hepatocellular Carcinoma Surgery and Hepatocellular Carcinoma The optimal surgical strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is under active debate. Bio-markers of the liver functional reserve as well as volumetric analysis of the future liver remnant are essential for safe liver resection of HCC. The present algorithms applied to surgical strategies for HCC are not ideal because many patients who could potentially undergo safe resection are deemed liver transplant candidates in Western countries, whereas the opposite is the case in Eastern countries. In addition, there is too much focus on expanded criteria for patients with HCC to undergo liver transplantation. The transplantation benefit for patients with HCC should be considered based not only on the individual's benefit, but also on the effect of other patients waiting for LT for other indications.
review-article	LIC449345	Current Technical Issues for Surgery of Primary Liver Cancer Current Technical Issues for Surgery of Primary Liver Cancer Primary liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer worldwide. Apart from liver transplantation, surgical resection has been accepted as the effective local treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), one of the most common primary liver cancers. Recent technological innovations including navigation technology and intraoperative real-time fluorescence guidance have been utilized for liver resections in clinical practice. With respect to liver resection techniques, the laparoscopic approach has been increasingly gaining popularity as one of the minimally-invasive treatments of HCC. These technological innovations and technical advancements are expected to further improve the safety and efficacy of liver resections.
review-article	LIC449346	Hepatocellular Carcinoma: The Role of Interventional Oncology Hepatocellular Carcinoma: The Role of Interventional Oncology Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a major health issue because of its increasing incidence and because of the complexity of its management. In addition to the traditional potentially curative treatments, i.e., liver transplantation and surgical resection, other new and emerging local therapies have been applied with promising results. Summary: Radiotherapy (RT) and interstitial treatments, such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA), microwave ablation (MWA), and irreversible electroporation (IRE), have recently opened new and interesting treatment scenarios for HCC and are associated with promising results in selected patients. Herein, we describe the emerging role of interventional oncology for the treatment of HCC and focus on the different Western and Eastern approaches. Key Messages: Modern RT and modern interstitial therapies, such as RFA, MWA, and IRE, should be considered for inclusion in HCC therapy guidelines.
review-article	LIC449347	Transarterial Therapies for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Transarterial Therapies for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Background: The treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still a major health issue because of its increasing incidence and because of the complexity of its management. Transarterial embolization (TAE) and transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) are two widely used locoregional therapies in the treatment of HCC, especially for unresectable intermediate and advanced HCCs. Summary: The modern use of TAE and TACE opens new scenarios for the treatment of unresectable HCC and has yielded interesting results. The present work describes the role of transarterial therapies for HCC and focuses on the different Western and Eastern approaches to the study of response predictors. Key Messages: Recent refinements in interventional radiology techniques and in HCC patient selection have facilitated better local control of the disease. The molecular profiling of HCC to predict the response to TACE and TAE will greatly help clinicians identify the optimum therapy.
review-article	LIC449348	Colorectal Liver Metastases: A Critical Review of State of the Art Colorectal Liver Metastases: A Critical Review of State of the Art Background: Over 50% of patients with colorectal cancer will develop liver metastases. Only a minority of patients present with technically resectable disease. Around 40% of those undergoing surgical resection are alive five years after their diagnosis compared with less than 1% for those with disseminated disease treated with systemic chemotherapy. Surgical resection remains the only possibility for long-term survival for these patients and great efforts have been made to increase the rates of resection whilst improving long-term outcomes. Summary: This review considers current technical and oncological criteria for resection, as well as targeted approaches to stratify underlying tumor biology in order to better predict long-term benefit. The role of neoadjuvant and perioperative systemic chemotherapy is critically reviewed, with suggestions for patient stratification in order to identify those who are likely to derive the greatest benefit. The key role of multidisciplinary assessment and decision making for these complex patients is also discussed. Key Messages: Surgery remains the optimal treatment for colorectal liver metastases (CRLM). Despite the curative intent of surgical resection, the majority of patients develop recurrence. Surgical strategies should therefore be adopted to maximize the potential for repeat resections in the event of recurrence. Although a number of preoperative prognostic markers have been identified, none are absolute contraindications to resection. In order to reduce postoperative recurrence, neo-adjuvant chemotherapy is now the standard of care in a number of countries. The evidence base for this approach is contentious, and the potential benefit of such a strategy is likely to be greatest in patients with high oncological risk disease. Multidisciplinary care is essential to ensure the optimal management of these complex patients. In addition, all patients with CRLM should be discussed with specialist hepatobiliary surgeons.
review-article	LIC449349	Recent Advances in Chemotherapy and Surgery for Colorectal Liver Metastases Recent Advances in Chemotherapy and Surgery for Colorectal Liver Metastases Background: The liver is the most common site of metastases for colorectal cancer, and combined resection with systemic chemotherapy is the most effective strategy for survival. The aim of this article is to provide a comprehensive summary on four hot topics related to chemotherapy and surgery for colorectal liver metastases (CLM), namely: (1) chemotherapy-related liver injuries: prediction and impact, (2) surgery for initially unresectable CLM, (3) the emerging role of RAS mutations, and (4) the role of hepatic arterial infusion of chemotherapy (HAIC). Summary and Key Messages: (1) The use of chemotherapy before liver resection for CLM leads to drug-specific hepatic toxicity, which negatively impacts posthepatectomy outcomes. (2) Curative liver resection of initially unresectable CLM following conversion chemotherapy should be attempted whenever possible, provided that a safe future liver remnant volume is achieved. (3) For CLM, RAS mutation status is needed to guide the use of targeted chemotherapy with anti-epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) agents, and is a major prognostic factor that may contribute to optimize surgical strategy. (4) HAIC agents increase the rate of objective response and the rate of complete pathological response.
review-article	LIC449490	Clinical Anatomy of the Liver: Review of the 19th Meeting of the Japanese Research Society of Clinical Anatomy Clinical Anatomy of the Liver: Review of the 19th Meeting of the Japanese Research Society of Clinical Anatomy Precise clinical knowledge of liver anatomy is required to safely perform a hepatectomy, for both open and laparoscopic surgery. At the 19th meeting of the Japanese Research Society of Clinical Anatomy (JRSCA), we conducted special symposia on essential issues of liver surgery, such as the history of hepatic segmentation, the glissonean pedicle approach, application of 3-D imaging simulation and fluorescent imaging using indocyanine green solution, a variety of segmentectomies including caudate lobectomy, the associating liver partition and portal vein embolization for stage hepatectomy and harvesting liver grafts for living donor liver transplantation. The present review article provides useful information for liver surgeons and anatomic researchers.
review-article	LIC449492	"New Perspectives in the Treatment of Colorectal Metastases New Perspectives in the Treatment of Colorectal Metastases Background: In recent years, the management of metastatic colorectal cancer has become more aggressive and more multidisciplinary. New treatment options have been proposed in addition to the standard approach of resection of liver metastases and chemotherapy. Summary: Selected patients with synchronous limited peritoneal and liver disease (peritoneal cancer index &lt;12 and &lt;3 liver metastases) can be scheduled for aggressive treatment, including cytoreductive surgery, hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy, and liver resection. This approach has achieved survival benefits, even if the treatment is unlikely to be curative in most patients. Moreover, liver transplantation has been recently reconsidered for liver-only metastases, resulting in the defacto reinstatement of the chance of surgery for some unresectable patients. Even though indications for liver transplantation remain to be standardized, preliminary studies have reported extremely promising outcomes. Radio-embolization has proven to be an effective additional tool for the treatment of unresectable tumors, and its potential role in association with chemotherapy for resectable disease is currently being investigated. Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a safe, non-invasive, and effective therapeutic option for patients with inoperable oligometastatic disease. Thanks to recent technical progress, high radiation doses can now be delivered in fewer fractions with excellent local disease control and a low risk of radiation-induced liver injury. Finally, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for colorectal metastases has become more effective, with results approaching those of surgical series. New interstitial treatments, such as microwave ablation and irreversible electroporation, could overcome some of the limitations of RFA, thereby further expanding indications and optimizing outcomes. Key Messages: Currently, a multidisciplinary approach to patients with colorectal liver metastases is mandatory. Aggressive surgical treatments should be integrated with all the available non-surgical options to maximize disease control and patient survival."
review-article	LIC449493	"Current Status on Cholangiocarcinoma and Gallbladder Cancer Current Status on Cholangiocarcinoma and Gallbladder Cancer Background: Cholangiocarcinomas (CC) as well as gallbladder cancers are relatively rare and intractable diseases. Clinical, pathological, and epidemiological studies on these tumors have been under investigation. The current status and/or topics on biliary tract cancers have been reported in the East West Association of Liver Tumor (EWALT), held in Milano, Italy in 2015. Summary: All the authors, herein, specifcally reported the current status and leading-edge findings on biliary tract cancers as the following sequence: epidemiology of CC, surgical therapy for intrahepatic CC, surgical therapy for perihilar CC, surgical therapy for gallblad der cancer, chemotherapy for biliary tract cancers, and new histological features in CC. Key Message: The present review article will update the knowledge on biliary tract cancers, en hancing the quality of daily clinical practice. However, many features about these cancers remain unknown; further studies are required to establish disease-specific optimal treatment strategies."
review-article	LIC449495	Surgery of Colorectal Liver Metastases: Pushing the Limits Surgery of Colorectal Liver Metastases: Pushing the Limits Background: The recent advent of more effective chemotherapy and the development of surgical procedures have expanded the pool of resectable patients with colorectal liver metastases (CLM). Two-stage hepatectomy (TSH), associated liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALPPS), and ultrasound-guided enhanced one-stage hepatectomy (e-OSH) are the surgical solutions proposed for these patients, but the range of indications for these procedures vary from institution to institution. Summary: The advantages and disadvantages of each approach are herein discussed. Patients who drop out between the staged operations of TSH limit its success rate, although predictive scores may help with patient selection and thereby optimize the results. Safety and oncological suitability are concerns to be addressed when considering ALPPS. These concerns notwithstanding, ALPPS has introduced an innovative concept in surgery: the monosegmental remnant liver. Studies involving e-OSH have proven the oncological suitability of tumor exposure once the CLM is detached from major intrahepatic vessels. This finding could expand the indications for e-OSH, although the technical challenges that it entails limit its spread among the surgical community. The liver-first approach involves the clearance of tumors from the liver before the colorectal primary is tackled. This approach fully justifies the complexity of e-OSH. Key Messages: Predictive scores limiting the interstage dropout of TSH, partial and monosegmental ALPPS, and R1 vascular e-OSH justified by solid long-term results represent new insights that could help refne the patient assignment to each of these approaches. Additionally, liver transplantation is an emerging treatment for CLM that should be taken into account.
meta-analysis	LIC481314	"Efficacy and Safety of Systemic Therapies for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Network Meta-Analysis of Phase III Trials Efficacy and Safety of Systemic Therapies for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Network Meta-Analysis of Phase III Trials Aim/Background: After the introduction of sorafenib in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), different studies tried to evaluate whether other systemic therapies can improve survival. To provide a comprehensive indirect treatment comparison of efficacy and safety of novel drugs, a network meta-analysis (NMA) of phase III randomized controlled trials was performed. Methods: After pertinent literature search up to November 1, 2016, 6 studies were eligible for the analysis including 4,812 individual patients with advanced HCC: 2,454 received sorafenib, 577 received brivanib, 530 received sunitinib, 514 received linifanib, 358 received sorafenib + erlotinib and 379 received placebo. Frequentist NMA was used to compare treatments within a single analytical framework. Results: NMA showed that sorafenib alone, regardless of combination with erlotinib, and linifanib provide a significant survival advantage over placebo (p &lt; 0.05) but without any significant difference between each other. Conversely, all regimens significantly ameliorate progression-free survival versus placebo (p &lt; 0.05). The rank order of efficacy was: sorafenib ± erlotinib, linifanib, brivanib, sunitinib, and placebo. Sorafenib ± erlotinib was the regimen with the fewest number of adverse events that required discontinuation of treatment, whereas linifanib and brivanib resulted in the most adverse events. The risk-benefit summary identified one cluster of therapies with a similar balance between efficacy and safety which included sorafenib alone or in combination with erlotinib, having, at the same time, the highest efficacy and safety. Conclusions: Sorafenib remains the best systemic treatment for advanced HCC; linifanib also resulted in survival advantages over placebo but with a lower safety profile."
meta-analysis	LIC484950	"Association between Loss of Skeletal Muscle Mass and Mortality and Tumor Recurrence in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Association between Loss of Skeletal Muscle Mass and Mortality and Tumor Recurrence in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has multiple prognostic factors, and there is an increase in knowledge about the body composition and physical status of patients with HCC. The present meta-analysis aimed to explore whether loss of skeletal muscle mass is associated with mortality and tumor recurrence in patients with HCC. Method: A systematic search was conducted for published literature using PubMed, Embase, and Scopus. We included cohort or case-control studies investigating patients with HCC. The primary and secondary outcomes were the associations of loss of skeletal muscle mass with overall survival and tumor recurrence, respectively, expressed by a summary hazard ratio (HR) and 95% confidence interval (CI). Result: A total of 13 studies comprising 3,111 patients were included. The summary HRs calculated by either univariate or multivariate analysis both suggested a significant association between sarcopenia and all-cause mortality (crude HR = 2.04, 95% CI: 1.74-2.38; adjusted HR = 1.95, 95% CI: 1.60-2.37). Similarly, loss of skeletal muscle mass was associated with tumor recurrence (crude HR = 1.85, 95% CI: 1.44-2.37; adjusted HR = 1.76, 95% CI: 1.27-2.45). The stratified analysis showed that treatment types and inclusion of body mass index or body weight in the Cox regression model did not modify both clinical outcomes. With an increase in cut-off values of muscle mass on computed tomography images (especially for male patients), there was an insignificant trend of stronger associations between loss of skeletal muscle mass and all-cause mortality. Conclusion: Loss of skeletal muscle mass is associated with increased all-cause mortality and tumor recurrence in patients with HCC. Further prospective studies incorporating measurements of muscle strength and physical function are warranted to see whether inclusion of both parameters better predicts the outcome than use of muscle mass only."
systematic-review	LIC485471	Patient Selection for Transarterial Chemoembolization in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Importance of Benefit/Risk Assessment Patient Selection for Transarterial Chemoembolization in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Importance of Benefit/Risk Assessment Background: Liver cancer is the second most common cause of cancer-related death, with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounting for most primary liver cancers and most commonly arising from a history of advanced chronic liver disease. Among the available therapies, transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the most widely utilized and is considered the first-line treatment recommended for patients staged as intermediate HCC (Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage B). If applied correctly, TACE can produce survival benefits without adversely affecting hepatic functional reserve. Summary: The aim of this nonsystematic review is to evaluate the evidence supporting TACE, with a special interest in intermediate HCC, for which this treatment is recommended in first line. However, intermediate HCC represents a broad and heterogeneous group of patients, not all of whom will benefit from TACE. This review highlights the importance of appropriate patient selection for initial TACE and for retreatment. It also evaluates evidence for the treatment of patients who become refractory to TACE. Some patients may, in fact, benefit from early switch (i.e., after 1 or 2 TACE treatments) to systemic therapies rather than continuing retreatments with TACE in order to preserve liver function, thus allowing sequential first- and second-line drug therapies. Key Messages: Careful assessment of an individual patient's benefit/risk ratio is recommended before any TACE session is considered to ensure optimal long-term outcomes in intermediate HCC.
review-article	MMB297915	Morphological and Molecular Modifications Induced by Different Carbohydrate Sources in Tuber borchii Morphological and Molecular Modifications Induced by Different Carbohydrate Sources in Tuber borchii During the life cycle of mycorrhizal fungi, morphological, genetic and metabolic modifications are induced in the fungus and its symbiotic partner. These changes are influenced by environmental factors: light, gravity, oxygen, temperature, soil type, nutrients, root exudates and the presence of particular bacterial and perhaps fungal and viral populations in the mycorrhizosphere. To determine whether different carbohydrates lead to cell-signalling events and morphofunctional changes in cultured Tuber borchii mycelia, the expression level of genes involved in morphological modifications was investigated using a macroarray technique and real-time RT-PCR. The morphological study showed an increased growth of Tuber mycelia in glucose, while the hyphae were thinner and less branched in sucrose and maltose. This was accompanied by an upregulation of the genes involved in the general cell metabolism, detoxification processes, hyphal growth and cytoskeleton organization. Since glucose is also present in root exudates, the increased expression of these genes might support the hypothesis that glucose can act as a signal for the fungus to indicate the presence of the plant, and to trigger the complex symbiotic process. These mechanisms can lead to morphological modifications, including increased branching of the root which is necessary for the fungus to establish the symbiosis.
research-article	MMB368852	Order from the Order: How a Spatiotemporal Genetic Program Is Encoded in a 2-D Genetic Map of the Bacterial Chromosome Order from the Order: How a Spatiotemporal Genetic Program Is Encoded in a 2-D Genetic Map of the Bacterial Chromosome In this article, we sketch out a holistic methodology used for exploring how the genetic program is encoded in a 2-D genetic map of a bacterial chromosome. We argue that the major problem resides in the conceptual integration of the two logically distinct types of information encoded in the chiral double-helical DNA polymer. This integration is accomplished by mapping the genetic function on the genomic sequence organisation and therefore is potentially applicable to any chromosome. The vast generalisation achieved by this approach necessarily ignores exquisite details, yet it is fundamental in providing comprehensive methodology for exploring the role of the DNA sequence organisation in harnessing genetic information and sustaining biological order.
research-article	MMB368931	Structural Maintenance of Chromosome Complex in Bacteria Structural Maintenance of Chromosome Complex in Bacteria In all organisms, from eukaryotes to prokaryotes, the chromosome is highly compacted and organized. Chromosome condensation is essential in all cells and ranges from 1,000- to more than 10,000-fold between bacterial and eukaryotic cells. Replication and transcription occur in parallel with chromosome segregation in bacteria. Structural maintenance of chromosome proteins play a key role in chromosome compaction and segregation, their coordination with the cell cycle, and in various other chromosome dynamics, including DNA repair. In spite of their essential nature in almost all organisms, their function at a molecular level is only slowly beginning to emerge.
research-article	MMB369098	Dynamic Organization: Chromosome Domains in Escherichia coli Dynamic Organization: Chromosome Domains in Escherichia coli Bacteria are small and their chromosomes are several orders of magnitude longer than the cell size. The chromosome is consequently compacted into a structure known as the nucleoid. Zooming into the nucleoid of the model organism Escherichia coli reveals additional layers of organization: the chromosomal domains. These domains are much more than simple compaction devices. Essential cellular processes such as chromosome segregation, gene regulation and DNA replication are dependent on the domain organization of the chromosome. Here, we provide an overview of discoveries about micro- and macrodomains in E. coli and discuss potential routes to be taken in future research.
research-article	MMB375124	Increased L-Ornithine Production in Corynebacterium glutamicum by Overexpression of a Gene Encoding a Putative Aminotransferase Increased L-Ornithine Production in Corynebacterium glutamicum by Overexpression of a Gene Encoding a Putative Aminotransferase Overexpression of the NCgl0462 open reading frame, encoding a class II aminotransferase, was studied in conjunction with other enzymes in L-ornithine biosynthesis in an L-ornithine-producing strain. Expression of the wild-type NCgl0462 open reading frame, which displayed aminotransferase activity, was amplified by placing it under the control of the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene promoter in the pEK0 plasmid and in the genome. L-Ornithine production in Corynebacteriumglutamicum SJC8260 harboring plasmid and the genomic NCgl0462 open reading frame was increased by 8.8 and 21.6%, respectively. In addition, the combined overexpression of the NCgl0462 open reading frame within the genome along with the mutated L-ornithine biosynthesis genes (argCJBD) placed in the pEK0 plasmid in C. glutamicum SJC8260 resulted in significant improvement in L-ornithine production (12.48 g/l for combined overexpression compared with 8.42 g/l for the control). These results suggest that overexpression of the aminotransferase-encoding NCgl0462 open reading frame plays an unequivocal role in the L-ornithine biosynthetic pathway, with overlapping substrate specificity in C. glutamicum.
review-article	MMB477245	Antitumor Effect of a DNA Vaccine Harboring Prostate Cancer-Specific Antigen with IL-12 as an Intramolecular Adjuvant Antitumor Effect of a DNA Vaccine Harboring Prostate Cancer-Specific Antigen with IL-12 as an Intramolecular Adjuvant To improve the lower immune intensity of DNA vaccines, we developed a DNA vaccine based on prostate cancer-specific antigen (PSA), which has been suggested as a potential target for prostate cancer therapy, and enhanced the DNA vaccine potency using interleukin-12 (IL-12) as an intramolecular adjuvant. A series of DNA plasmids encoding human PSA, IL-12, and their conjugates was constructed and injected into female mice intramuscularly, followed by an electric pulse. The humoral and cellular immune responses after immunization were detected by ELISA and ELISPOT, respectively. To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of these plasmids, a mouse model with a PSA-expressing tumor was constructed. Mice vaccinated with PSA-IL-12 plasmids elicited the strongest PSA-specific humoral and cellular immune responses. Furthermore, these vaccinations inhibited the growth of PSA-expressing tumors and prolonged mouse survival. These observations emphasize the potential of the IL-12 gene as an intramolecular adjuvant for DNA vaccines. Moreover, the vaccine based on PSA and IL-12 may be a promising treatment for prostate cancer.
review-article	MMB477544	A Review of Conventional PCR Assays for the Detection of Selected Phytopathogens of Wheat A Review of Conventional PCR Assays for the Detection of Selected Phytopathogens of Wheat Infection of phyllosphere (stems, leaves, husks, and grains) by pathogenic fungi reduces the wheat yield and grain quality. Detection of the main wheat pathogenic fungi provides information about species composition and allows effective and targeted plant treatment. Since conventional procedures for the detection of these organisms are unreliable and time consuming, diagnostic DNA-based methods are required. Nucleic acid amplification technologies are independent of the morphological and biochemical characteristics of fungi. Microorganisms do not need to be cultured. Therefore, a number of PCR-based methodologies have been developed for the identification of key pathogenic fungi, such as Fusarium spp., Puccinia spp., Zymoseptoria tritici, Parastagonospora nodorum, Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, and Pyrenophora tritici-repentis. This article reviews frequently used DNA regions for fungus identification and discusses already known PCR assays for detection of the aforementioned wheat pathogens. We demonstrate that PCR-based wheat pathogen identification assays require further research. In particular, the number of diagnostic tests for Fusarium graminearum, Puccinia spp., and P. tritici-repentis are insufficient.
meta-analysis	MNP369974	Molecular and Genetic Characterization of Depression: Overlap with Other Psychiatric Disorders and Aging Molecular and Genetic Characterization of Depression: Overlap with Other Psychiatric Disorders and Aging Genome-wide expression and genotyping technologies have uncovered the genetic bases of complex diseases at unprecedented rates. However, despite its heavy burden and high prevalence, the molecular characterization of major depressive disorder (MDD) has lagged behind. Transcriptome studies report multiple brain disturbances but are limited by small sample sizes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) report weak results but suggest an overlapping genetic risk with other neuropsychiatric disorders. We performed a systematic molecular characterization of altered brain function in MDD using meta-analysis of differential expression of 8 gene array studies across 3 corticolimbic brain regions in 101 subjects. The identified ‘metaA-MDD' genes suggest altered neurotrophic support, brain plasticity and neuronal signaling in MDD. Notably, metaA-MDD genes display a low connectivity and hubness in coexpression networks as well as a uniform genomic distribution, which is consistent with diffuse polygenic mechanisms. We have integrated these findings with results from over 1,800 published GWAS and show that genetic variations nearby metaA-MDD genes predict a greater risk for neuropsychiatric disorders, and notably for age-related phenotypes, but not for other medical illnesses (including those frequently co-occurring with depression) or body characteristics. Collectively, the intersection of unbiased investigations of gene function (transcriptome) and structure (GWAS) provides novel leads to investigate molecular mechanisms of MDD and suggests common biological pathways between depression, other neuropsychiatric diseases and brain aging.
research-article	MNP444587	Cell Type-Specific Effects of Mutant DISC1: A Proteomics Study Cell Type-Specific Effects of Mutant DISC1: A Proteomics Study Despite the recent progress in psychiatric genetics, very few studies have focused on genetic risk factors in glial cells that, compared to neurons, can manifest different molecular pathologies underlying psychiatric disorders. In order to address this issue, we studied the effects of mutant disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1), a genetic risk factor for schizophrenia, in cultured primary neurons and astrocytes using an unbiased mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach. We found that selective expression of mutant DISC1 in neurons affects a wide variety of proteins predominantly involved in neuronal development (e.g., SOX1) and vesicular transport (Rab proteins), whereas selective expression of mutant DISC1 in astrocytes produces changes in the levels of mitochondrial (GDPM), nuclear (TMM43) and cell adhesion (ECM2) proteins. The present study demonstrates that DISC1 variants can perturb distinct molecular pathways in a cell type-specific fashion to contribute to psychiatric disorders through heterogenic effects in diverse brain cells.
review-article	MNP452416	Positive Traits in the Bipolar Spectrum: The Space between Madness and Genius Positive Traits in the Bipolar Spectrum: The Space between Madness and Genius Bipolar disorder is a severe, lifelong mood disorder for which little is currently understood of the genetic mechanisms underlying risk. By examining related dimensional phenotypes, we may further our understanding of the disorder. Creativity has a historical connection with the bipolar spectrum and is particularly enhanced among unaffected first-degree relatives and those with bipolar spectrum traits. This suggests that some aspects of the bipolar spectrum may confer advantages, while more severe expressions of symptoms negatively influence creative accomplishment. Creativity is a complex, multidimensional construct with both cognitive and affective components, many of which appear to reflect a shared genetic vulnerability with bipolar disorder. It is suggested that a subset of bipolar risk variants confer advantages as positive traits according to an inverted-U-shaped curve with clinically unaffected allele carriers benefitting from the positive traits and serving to maintain the risk alleles in the population. The association of risk genes with creativity in healthy individuals (e.g., NRG1), as well as an overall sharing of common genetic variation between bipolar patients and creative individuals, provides support for this model. Current findings are summarized from a multidisciplinary perspective to demonstrate the feasibility of research in this area to reveal the mechanisms underlying illness.
review-article	MNP452998	Evidence of AS3MTd2d3-Associated Variants within 10q24.32-33 in the Genetic Risk of Major Affective Disorders Evidence of AS3MTd2d3-Associated Variants within 10q24.32-33 in the Genetic Risk of Major Affective Disorders Genome-wide association studies suggest that 10q24.32-33 is a risk region for schizophrenia (SCZ). Considering the substantial genetic overlap between SCZ and major affective disorders, we would like to investigate whether the 10q24.32-33 region confers risk of affective disorders. We chose three SCZ genome-wide significant SNPs (rs7914558, rs7085104, and rs11191580) in 10q24.32-33 and collected the statistical data from European and Asian populations to perform systematic meta-analyses, which finally included up to 26,413 cases with affective disorders and 24,849 controls. Meta-analyses showed that all SNPs were nominally associated with major affective disorders. Considering the a priori evidence that these SNPs were associated with the expression of AS3MTd2d3 isoform in the human brain, our data confirms the potential involvement of AS3MTd2d3 in the genetic risk of major affective disorders.
meta-analysis	MNP481661	Interleukin-17 Alteration in First-Episode Psychosis: A Meta-Analysis Interleukin-17 Alteration in First-Episode Psychosis: A Meta-Analysis Schizophrenia is accompanied with central nervous system and peripheral immune system imbalances. Interleukin-17 (IL-17) is implicated in various immune and inflammatory processes. Aberrant levels of IL-17 have been reported in patients with schizophrenia, whereas the results are not consistent. To clarify the relationship between IL-17 and schizophrenia, we performed a meta-analysis in this study. We carried out a structured literature search in PubMed and Embase database up to April 16, 2017, and retrieved all eligible case-control studies according to the inclusion criteria. Finally, a total of 313 patients with drug-naïve first-episode psychosis and 238 healthy control subjects from 5 studies were included in our meta-analysis. There were no significant differences between first-episode psychosis patients and healthy controls with respect to the levels of IL-17 (p = 0.21), even when we removed 2 studies which were not European samples (p = 0.12). Our findings suggested that IL-17 may not be involved in the pathological mechanism of schizophrenia.
review-article	MNP494495	Potential Role of Antipsychotic-Galantamine-Memantine Combination in the Treatment of Positive, Cognitive, and Negative Symptoms of Schizophrenia Potential Role of Antipsychotic-Galantamine-Memantine Combination in the Treatment of Positive, Cognitive, and Negative Symptoms of Schizophrenia Schizophrenia is, in part, a cognitive illness. There are no approved medications for cognitive impairments associated with schizophrenia (CIAS) and primary negative symptoms. Cholinergic and glutamatergic systems, alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine (α-7nACh) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, kynurenic acid (KYNA), and mismatch negativity have been implicated in the pathophysiology of CIAS and negative symptoms. Galantamine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is also a positive allosteric modulator at the α4β2 and α7nACh receptors. Memantine is a noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist. Galantamine and memantine alone and in combination were effective for cognition in animals and people with Alzheimer’s disease. The objective of this article is to critically dissect the published randomized controlled trials with galantamine and memantine for CIAS to highlight the efficacy signal. These studies may have failed to detect a clinically meaningful efficacy signal due to limitations, methodological issues, and possible medication nonadherence. There is evidence from a small open-label study that the galantamine-memantine combination may be effective for CIAS with kynurenine pathway metabolites as biomarkers to detect the severity of cognitive impairments. Given that there are no available treatments for cognitive impairments and primary negative symptoms in schizophrenia, testing of this “five-pronged strategy” (quintuple hypotheses: dopamine, nicotinic-cholinergic, glutamatergic/NMDA, GABA, and KYNA) is a “low-risk high-gain” approach that could be a major breakthrough in the field. The galantamine-memantine combination has the potential to treat positive, cognitive, and negative symptoms, and targeting the quintuple hypotheses concurrently may lead to a major scientific advancement – from antipsychotic treatment to antischizophrenia treatment.
review-article	MNP494799	Neurobiological and Neurophysiological Mechanisms Underlying Nicotine Seeking and Smoking Relapse Neurobiological and Neurophysiological Mechanisms Underlying Nicotine Seeking and Smoking Relapse Tobacco-related morbidity and mortality continue to be a significant public health concern. Unfortunately, current FDA-approved smoking cessation pharmacotherapies have limited efficacy and are associated with high rates of relapse. Therefore, a better understanding of the neurobiological and neurophysiological mechanisms that promote smoking relapse is needed to develop novel smoking cessation medications. Here, we review preclinical studies focused on identifying the neurotransmitter and neuromodulator systems that mediate nicotine relapse, often modeled in laboratory animals using the reinstatement paradigm, as well as the plasticity-dependent neurophysiological mechanisms that facilitate nicotine reinstatement. Particular emphasis is placed on how these neuroadaptations relate to smoking relapse in humans. We also highlight a number of important gaps in our understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying nicotine reinstatement and critical future directions, which may lead toward the development of novel, target pharmacotherapies for smoking cessation.
review-article	MPP285280	Principles and Practice of Nonpharmacological Interventions to Reduce Cardiometabolic Risk Principles and Practice of Nonpharmacological Interventions to Reduce Cardiometabolic Risk The components of the metabolic syndrome, including prediabetes, prehypertension and dyslipidemia, represent prodromal stages of major cardiometabolic disorders. Lifestyle interventions have been shown to ameliorate or prevent the progression of individual components of the metabolic syndrome. The specific interventions utilized in randomized controlled studies often include dietary modification and physical activity. The effects of smoking cessation and the reduction of psychosocial stress on cardiometabolic risk factors need to be studied more. Because of the close concordance between the metabolic syndrome and multiple cardiometabolic diseases, the adoption of an effective lifestyle change upon initial recognition of the metabolic syndrome can be expected to delay or prevent the future development of sequelae such as diabetes, hypertension, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. Such a nonpharmacological approach to primary prevention and disease interruption carries enormous public health significance. Meeting the challenge of an implementation of effective lifestyle change at the community level requires (a) a system for the identification of at-risk populations, (b) an optimization of the knowledge base and practices of health care providers, and (c) a piloting of targeted biobehavioral intervention programs. Once identified, persons and communities at risk for cardiometabolic disorders can be empowered through increased health and nutritional literacy, the promotion of lifestyle interventions, provision of community resources, and pertinent legislative action that rewards preventive behavior. This paper reviews landmark studies that demonstrate the principles of nonpharmacological approaches to the reduction of cardiometabolic risk. We also discuss the physiological and emerging molecular genetic mechanisms that underlie the efficacy of lifestyle interventions.
systematic-review	MPP371709	Resin Infiltration of Non-Cavitated Caries Lesions: A Systematic Review Resin Infiltration of Non-Cavitated Caries Lesions: A Systematic Review Objective: The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the in vivo scientific evidence of the ability of resin infiltration (RI) to arrest non-cavitated caries lesions. Materials and Methods: The PubMed database was searched for randomized controlled trials that evaluated the in vivo effect of RI versus placebo or other preventive treatment on the progression of caries lesions. The keywords used were ‘resin infiltration, dental caries', ‘resin infiltration, carious lesions', ‘resin infiltration, caries lesions', ‘caries infiltration' and ‘Icon DMG' with the ‘clinical trial' filter activated. Among the 14 articles originally identified with these keywords, only 4 (related to 3 different in vivo studies) were included for this review. Results: All 4 articles reported on proximal caries lesions. One study had been conducted on 48 high-caries-risk children while the other 3 (n = 22, 22 and 39, respectively) concerned moderate- and low-caries-risk adolescents and adults. The quality of the studies was assessed to be high with respect to randomization, split-mouth design and blinding. All the included studies showed significant differences in caries progression between test and control/placebo groups, indicating that RI may inhibit the carious process. Conclusion: This systematic review revealed that RI appeared to be an effective method to arrest the progression of non-cavitated caries lesions. Additional, long-term studies are required.
meta-analysis	MPP441003	Evaluating the Ability of the Bedside Index for Severity of Acute Pancreatitis Score to Predict Severe Acute Pancreatitis: A Meta-Analysis Evaluating the Ability of the Bedside Index for Severity of Acute Pancreatitis Score to Predict Severe Acute Pancreatitis: A Meta-Analysis Objective: To evaluate the diagnostic performance of the bedside index for severity in acute pancreatitis (BISAP) score in predicting severe acute pancreatitis (SAP). Materials and Methods: A systematic search was conducted using PubMed, Cochrane library and EMBASE databases up to May 2014, and 9 related studies, including 1,972 subjects, were reviewed. Pooled sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio (PLR), negative likelihood ratio (NLR), diagnosis of odds ratio (DOR) and hierarchic summary receiver-operating characteristic (HSROC) curves, as well as the area under the HSROC curve (AUC), were assessed using the HSROC and bivariate mixed effects models. Moreover, a subgroup analysis stratified by cutoff value was performed to measure the effect of the diagnostic threshold on the performance of the BISAP score. Finally, publication bias was assessed using Deeks' funnel plot asymmetry test. Statistical analyses were performed using the STATA 12.0 software. Results: The pooled sensitivity, specificity, PLR, NLR and DOR of the BISAP for predicting SAP were 64.82% (95% CI: 54.47-73.74%), 83.62% (95% CI: 70.03-91.77%), 3.96 (95% CI: 2.27-6.89), 0.42 (95% CI: 0.34-0.52) and 9.41 (95% CI: 5.38-16.45), respectively. The AUC was 0.77 (95% CI: 0.73-0.80). Moreover, the subgroup analysis results demonstrated that the BISAP cutoff point at 3 had a higher specificity and greater accuracy than at 2 to predict SAP. No significant publication bias was detected across the studies (p = 0.359). Conclusion: The BISAP score showed low sensitivity but high specificity for assessing the severity of acute pancreatitis.
case-report	MPP442822	Kennedy Disease Misdiagnosed as Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy, Monoclonal Gammopathy, and Skin Changes (POEMS) Syndrome: A Case Report Kennedy Disease Misdiagnosed as Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy, Monoclonal Gammopathy, and Skin Changes (POEMS) Syndrome: A Case Report Objective: The aim of this paper was to report the first case of Kennedy disease misdiagnosed as polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 58-year-old Chinese man presented with limb numbness, progressive limb proximal weakness, lymph node and thyroid enlargement, edema, pigmentation in the lower limb, and obvious gynecomastia, which was initially diagnosed as POEMS syndrome and was treated with dexamethasone and small doses of cyclophosphamide without any improvement after 6 months. Finally, the patient diagnosis was confirmed as Kennedy disease (KD) by gene analysis. Conclusion: This case suggests that clinicians should pay more attention to the differential diagnosis between KD and POEMS syndrome. Gene analysis was helpful in detecting this rare confusing disease in this patient.
case-report	MPP442946	Mesalamine Intolerance in Three Children with Crohn's Disease Mesalamine Intolerance in Three Children with Crohn's Disease Objective: To present the mesalamine-induced acute exacerbation of symptoms and inflammatory markers in children with Crohn's disease (CD). Clinical Presentation and Intervention: Three children who presented with CD had acute exacerbation of colitis symptoms or elevated inflammatory markers when mesalamine was added to treatment while tapering/ceasing steroid treatment. While on steroid treatment, the patients maintained clinical and laboratory remission, but with the initiation of mesalamine treatment, they had abdominal pain and bloody mucoid diarrhoea and/or elevation of white blood cell count, C-reactive protein level and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Bacterial pathogens were excluded from the urine, throat and blood cultures, parasites with stool examination, viral pathogens with serology. Within 3-7 days after the mesalamine treatment had been stopped, the patients showed improvement of colitis symptoms and normalisation of white blood cell count, C-reactive protein level and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Conclusion: In this study mesalamine mimicked CD relapse in children with CD while tapering or after stopping steroid treatment. Awareness of this side effect of mesalamine could prevent a misdiagnosis of steroid dependency.
case-report	MPP443017	"Management of Anesthesia in a Child with a Large Neck Rhabdoid Tumor Management of Anesthesia in a Child with a Large Neck Rhabdoid Tumor Objective: The aim of this paper was to report the management of anesthesia of a child with a large neck rhabdoid tumor. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 9-month- old female patient underwent urgent neck tumor excision due to intratumoral bleeding from a large tumor that compressed and dislocated the trachea; therefore, intubation was expected to be difficult. Sevoflurane inhalation induction was utilized to maintain spontaneous respiration. Oral laryngoscopy revealed Cormack-Lehane grade 3 laryngeal view. The trachea was intubated using a reinforced tube on the third attempt. Fiberoptic bronchoscope-assisted intubation was planned as an alternative in case of conventional intubation failure. Anticipation of massive blood loss necessitated central venous catheterization. Conclusion: Establishing a safe airway, intubation during spontaneous breathing and invasive hemodynamic monitoring are crucial factors in the anesthetic management of pediatric patients with a large neck tumor."
case-report	MPP443310	"Aspergillus Vertebral Osteomyelitis Complicating Pulmonary Granuloma in an Immunocompetent Adult Aspergillus Vertebral Osteomyelitis Complicating Pulmonary Granuloma in an Immunocompetent Adult Objective: The aim of this report is to describe a case with Aspergillus vertebral osteomyelitis complicating pulmonary granuloma in an immunocompetent adult. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 53-year-old male patient was found to have lesions on lumbar vertebra 5 months after thoracoscopic resection of pulmonary granuloma that lacked a definite etiology. Three operations on the lumbar lesions were performed successively; however, an Aspergillus infection was not confirmed until hyphae were clearly detected at the last surgery. The patient was treated with voriconazole and recovered well. Conclusion: This case shows that simultaneous occurrence of granulomatous nodules in the lung and vertebral lesions should raise suspicion of aspergillosis, even in immunocompetent patients."
case-report	MPP443376	Mandibular Osteolytic Lesion Associated with Exuberant Hyaline Ring Granuloma Reaction Mandibular Osteolytic Lesion Associated with Exuberant Hyaline Ring Granuloma Reaction Objective: To report an unusual case of oral hyaline ring granuloma (HRG) that caused an extensive osteolytic lesion. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 22-year-old female was referred to our hospital with a large expansile cystic lesion in the left mandibular ramus associated with a clinically visible, partially erupted third molar. A diagnosis of paradental cyst was made. After marsupialization of the lesion, histopathological analysis of the surgical specimen showed an unusual exuberant HRG reaction supported by scarce fibrous stroma. Conclusion: This was a case of exuberant HRG reaction that caused extensive bone destruction.
meta-analysis	MPP444688	"Ultrasound-Guided Transversus Abdominis Plane Block for Analgesia in Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Ultrasound-Guided Transversus Abdominis Plane Block for Analgesia in Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: To evaluate the analgesic efficacy of ultrasound-guided transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block for patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). Materials and Methods: A systematic literature search was conducted to identify randomized controlled trials that compared ultrasound-guided TAP block with control for analgesia in adult patients undergoing LC. The original data were pooled for the meta-analysis using Review Manager 5. The main outcomes included postoperative pain intensity, opioid consumption, and adverse events. Out of a total of 77 trials, 7 were included. Results: Compared with control, ultrasound-guided TAP block reduced the following: (1) postoperative pain intensity (visual analog scale: 0-10) both at rest and on movement at 0, 2, 4, 8, and 24 h (at rest: mean difference, MD0 h = -2.19, 95% confidence interval, CI: -3.46 to -0.91, p = 0.0008; on movement: MD0 h = -2.67, 95% CI: -3.86 to -1.48, p &lt; 0.0001); (2) intraoperative fentanyl consumption (MD = -27.85 µg, 95% CI: -44.91 to -10.79, p = 0.001), and (3) morphine consumption in the recovery room (MD = -1.57 mg, 95% CI: -3.0 to -0.14, p = 0.03) and 0-24 h postoperatively. Fewer patients required analgesics in the recovery room when receiving TAP blocks (risk ratio, RR = 0.35, 95% CI: 0.20 to 0.62, p = 0.0003). TAP blocks also reduced postoperative nausea and vomiting (RR = 0.48, 95% CI: 0.28 to 0.81, p = 0.006). None of the studies reported symptoms of local anesthetic toxicity. Conclusions: In this study, the ultrasound-guided TAP block was an effective strategy for analgesia in patients undergoing LC."
meta-analysis	MPP449036	The Effect of Problem-Based Learning on Improvement of the Medical Educational Environment: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Effect of Problem-Based Learning on Improvement of the Medical Educational Environment: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of problem-based learning on improving the medical educational environment. Materials and Methods: All relevant studies on problem-based learning and the medical educational environment were searched for in PubMed, the Education Resources Information Center (ERIC) catalogue, Google Scholar, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) and WanFang Data (WF) databases for material dating from 1969 to May 2015 without any language limitation. Six randomized controlled trials of problem-based learning compared to traditional lecture-based learning were included. The Cochrane risk of bias tool was used to assess the quality of the included studies. Review Manager (Revman) version 5.3 software was used for data analysis. The effect size of the improvement on the medical educational environment was calculated as the mean difference and 95% confidence interval. Heterogeneity was evaluated with Cochrane's &
case-report	MPP452132	Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Mismatch: A Case of Tracheal Hamartoma Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Mismatch: A Case of Tracheal Hamartoma Objective: To demonstrate the diagnostic challenge of tracheal hamartoma in a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 65-year-old man with COPD was admitted with sudden onset of asphyxia attacks related to the position of his body. Computerized tomography (CT) of the neck showed a soft tissue mass with calcification, which occluded more than two-thirds of the proximal part of the trachea. The tumor was completely removed, and histopathology confirmed hamartoma. Conclusion: This case report showed the detection of a primary tracheal tumor on CT. This finding enabled the correct diagnosis and led to appropriate treatment in the form of surgery.
review-article	MPP455101	Make Precision Medicine Work for Chronic Kidney Disease Make Precision Medicine Work for Chronic Kidney Disease Precision medicine is based on accurate diagnosis and tailored intervention through the use of omics and clinical data together with epidemiology and environmental exposures. Precision medicine should be achieved with minimum adverse events and maximum efficacy in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). In this review, the breakthroughs of omics in CKD and the application of systems biology are reviewed. The potential role of transforming growth factor-β1 in the targeted intervention of renal fibrosis is discussed as an example of how to make precision medicine work for CKD.
meta-analysis	MPP487323	Effect of Transversus Abdominis Plane Block on Postoperative Pain after Colorectal Surgery: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Effect of Transversus Abdominis Plane Block on Postoperative Pain after Colorectal Surgery: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Objectives: To assess the analgesic efficacy of transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block in patients undergoing colorectal surgery (CRS). Materials and Methods: The databases of PubMed, ISI Web of Science, and Embase were searched, and randomized controlled studies (RCTs) that compared TAP block to control for relief of postoperative pain in patients who underwent CRS were included. Outcomes, including postoperative pain at rest and with movement, morphine use, postoperative nausea and vomiting, and the length of hospital stay, were analyzed using STATA software. The weighted mean differences (WMDs) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) or relative risk with 95% CI were used to present the strength of associations. Results: A total of 7 RCTs with 511 patients were included. The results of this study suggested that TAP block significantly relieved postoperative pain during postanesthetic recovery after CRS at rest and during movement (WMDs were –0.98 [95% CI –1.57 to –0.38] and –0.68 [–1.07 to –0.30], respectively), and also decreased pain intensity during movement 24 h after CRS (WMD: –0.57 [95% CI –1.06 to –0.08]). TAP block significantly reduced opioid consumption within 24 h when compared to controls, with a WMD of 15.66 (95% CI –23.93 to –7.39). However, TAP block did not shorten the length of hospital stay. Conclusions: TAP block was an effective approach for relief of postoperative pain and reduced postoperative consumption of morphine. More RCTs with large sample sizes are required to confirm these findings.
meta-analysis	MPP488243	Effects of Haloperidol on Delirium in Adult Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effects of Haloperidol on Delirium in Adult Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to investigate whether or not the use of haloperidol could reduce the incidence of delirium in adult patients. Subjects and Methods: PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane Library, Elsevier, Wiley, and Ovid were searched for randomized controlled trials and prospective interventional cohort studies that compared haloperidol with placebo for delirium prophylaxis or with second generation antipsychotics for delirium treatment. The primary end point was the incidence and severity of delirium. After reviewing 272 relevant articles, 10 studies with 1,861 patients were finally included (haloperidol vs. placebo in 8 studies [n = 1,734], and haloperidol vs. second-generation antipsychotics in 2 studies [n = 127]). Revman 5.3 was used for the data analysis. Results: Compared with placebo, a high dose of prophylactic haloperidol (≥5 mg/day) may help reduce the incidence of delirium in surgical patients (risk ratio 0.50, 95% CI 0.32, 0.79). There were no differences in the duration of delirium, QTc interval prolongation, extrapyramidal symptoms, intensive care unit stay, hospital stay, or mortality between the haloperidol and placebo groups. For delirium treatment, haloperidol exhibited similar effects as the second-generation antipsychotics. Conclusions: In this study, the limited available data revealed that prophylaxis haloperidol at a dose of ≥5 mg/day might help reduce delirium in adult surgical patients. Further outcome studies with larger sample sizes are required to confirm these findings.
systematic-review	MPP493267	A Systematic Review of the Prevalence of Atopic Diseases in Children on the Arabian Peninsula A Systematic Review of the Prevalence of Atopic Diseases in Children on the Arabian Peninsula Objectives: To study the available data on the prevalence of atopic diseases and food allergy in children living on the Arabian Peninsula. Methods: A PubMed search for relevant published articles was conducted using the following search terms singly or in combination: “atopy,” “atopic disease,” “atopic disorder,” “International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood,” “ISAAC,” “asthma,” “allergic rhinitis,” “eczema,” and “food allergy” in combination with the names of countries of the Arabian Peninsula (Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and Yemen). The search captured studies published up to December 2017. Results: A total of 8 publications reporting prevalence rates of any type of atopic disease in children in 7 countries of the Arabian Peninsula were retrieved. The prevalence of all atopic disorders was comparable between countries of the Arabian Peninsula. The overall prevalence of asthma ranged from 8 to 23%, while the reported prevalence of eczema ranged from 7.5 to 22.5%. There was great variation in the prevalence rates of rhinoconjunctivitis, which ranged from 6.3 to 30.5%. The prevalence of food allergy (8.1%) was reported for 1 country only, the United Arab Emirates. Conclusions: The reported overall rates of atopic disease in countries of the Arabian Peninsula are comparable to those reported in other industrialized countries. This is probably related to the good economic status in the region, which is reflected in the living standards and lifestyle. Further, genetic factors, such as factors related to gene polymorphism, and the high rate of consanguinity in the region may contribute to the higher prevalence of atopic diseases.
review-article	MPP493390	Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Brief Overview of the Treatment Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Brief Overview of the Treatment Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, inflammatory, systemic autoimmune disease, affecting the joints with varying severity among patients. The risk factors include age, gender, genetics, and environmental exposure (cigarette smoking, air pollutants, and occupational). Many complications can follow, such as permanent joint damage requiring arthroplasty, rheumatoid vasculitis, and Felty syndrome requiring splenectomy if it remains unaddressed. As there is no cure for RA, the treatment goals are to reduce the pain and stop/slow further damage. Here, we present a brief summary of various past and present treatment modalities to address the complications associated with RA.
case-report	MPP494619	Epididymal Dirofilariasis in a Child: First Case Report from Bulgaria Epididymal Dirofilariasis in a Child: First Case Report from Bulgaria Objective: To present case of a child with epididymal dirofil­ariasis. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: An 11-year-old boy was admitted to the Clinic of Pediatric Urology for elective surgery treatment of epididymal cyst on the left side. After removal, the cyst was sent for histological examination. Microscopic examination of the histological slides revealed cross-sections of a nematode belonging to Dirofilaria spp., differentiated morphologically as D. repens. After surgery, the patient recovered completely. Conclusions: In most parts around the world, dirofilariasis is a rare and neglected infection. Nevertheless, the clinicians and pathologists must be informed about it.
case-report	MPP494800	Hashimoto Encephalopathy as a Complication of Autoimmune Thyroiditis Hashimoto Encephalopathy as a Complication of Autoimmune Thyroiditis Objective: To present a case of Hashimoto encephalopathy as a complication of autoimmune thyroiditis. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A previously healthy 56-year-old female presented with rapidly progressive cognitive decline and visual hallucinations. Being a diagnosis of exclusion, Hashimoto encephalopathy required an extensive laboratory and diagnostic workup, which was done over the course of a 15-day hospitalization. The patient recovered after initial treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone and was then switched to prednisone p.o. Conclusion: This case report illustrates the importance of awareness for Hashimoto encephalopathy, as it remains one of the few easily treatable and reversible causes of rapid cognitive decline.
case-report	MPP494839	Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug-Induced Colopathy in a Colorectal Cancer Screening Program Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug-Induced Colopathy in a Colorectal Cancer Screening Program Objective: To present a case of colopathy related to the use of diclofenac in a patient with a positive immunochemical faecal occult blood test (iFOBT) and to discuss the influence of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on iFOBT specificity. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A colonoscopy in a 56-year-old female presenting with a positive iFOBT revealed diaphragm-like strictures and ulcers in the right colon. While carrying out a detailed retrospective interview, she reported a chronic backache requiring long-term NSAID treatment. Conclusion: No association has been established between chronic use of NSAID and a false-positive iFOBT. There is no need to stop NSAIDs before performing an iFOBT in a colorectal cancer screening program.
case-report	MPP494974	Pregnancy-Induced Sweet’s Syndrome Treated with Infliximab Pregnancy-Induced Sweet’s Syndrome Treated with Infliximab Objective: To present a case of relapsing and resistant Sweet’s syndrome that developed during pregnancy together with an onset of Crohn’s disease, showing complete resolution with the use of infliximab. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 30-year-old pregnant woman presented with fever, skin lesions, and diarrhea. Skin biopsy confirmed neutrophilic dermatosis and she was diagnosed with Crohn’s disease after endoscopy. There was no recurrence of Sweet’s syndrome outside of her pregnancy. During a previous pregnancy, while corticosteroids were ineffective, complete regression of skin lesions was achieved using infliximab. Conclusion: The “off-label” use of infliximab is beneficial for relapsing and resistant Sweet’s syndrome.
case-report	MPP495004	Acute Myocardial Infarction due to Multiple Thrombosis without Cardiogenic Shock Acute Myocardial Infarction due to Multiple Thrombosis without Cardiogenic Shock Objective: Acute thrombotic occlusion of &
research-article	MPP495526	Association of the CHA2DS2VASc Score with Acute Stent Thrombosis in Patients with an ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction Who Underwent a Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Association of the CHA2DS2VASc Score with Acute Stent Thrombosis in Patients with an ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction Who Underwent a Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Objective: In this study, we aimed to determine the predictive value of the CHA2DS2VASc score for acute stent thrombosis in patients with an ST elevation myocardial infarction treated with a primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pPCI). Methods: This was a retrospective study conducted among 3,460 consecutive patients with STEMI who underwent a pPCI. The stent thrombosis was considered a definite or confirmed event in the presence of symptoms suggestive of acute coronary syndrome and angiographic confirmation of stent thrombosis based on the diagnostic guidelines of the Academic Research Consortium. The stent thrombosis was classified as acute if it developed within 24 h. Results: The mean CHA2DS2VASc score was 3.29 ± 1.73 in the stent thrombosis group, whereas it was 2.06 ± 1.14 in the control group (p &
research-article	MPP495567	Modesty, Objectification, and Disordered Eating Patterns - A Comparative Study Between Veiled and Non-Veiled Muslim Women Residing in Kuwait Modesty, Objectification, and Disordered Eating Patterns - A Comparative Study Between Veiled and Non-Veiled Muslim Women Residing in Kuwait Background: The common thread running through all forms of sexual objectification is the experience of being treated as a body (or collection of body parts) valued predominantly for its use to (or consumption by) others. Girls and women who adopt a peculiar view of self, an effect called self-objectification may contribute to women’s depression, sexual dysfunction, and eating disorders. The objectives of the study are to investigate the impact of modesty (in terms of veiling, i.e. hijab) on objectification, by others and by the self, body image and behaviors indicative of eating disturbance of veiled and unveiled Muslim women in Kuwait. Methods: It is a community-based, cross-sectional study conducted through online survey. The respondents were females living in Kuwait. Results: Unveiled women experienced more objectification by others than veiled women. There were no significant differences found between veiled and unveiled women in self-objectification and eating disorder symptomatology. There is a negative significant relationship between modesty of clothing and objectification by others. No significant relationship was found between modesty of clothing and self-objectification and eating disorders scales. For the objectification by others scale, data shows that there is a positive relationship between this scale and eating disorders. Eating disorders were found to have a negative relationship with self-objectification. Conclusion: The results of the study are significant as they clearly demonstrate a weak negative relationship between clothing preferences/affiliations and eating disorders.
research-article	MPP495753	Comparison of Digital Breast Tomosynthesis and Digital Mammography for Detection of Breast Cancer in Kuwaiti Women Comparison of Digital Breast Tomosynthesis and Digital Mammography for Detection of Breast Cancer in Kuwaiti Women Objective: To investigate the sensitivity and specificity of digital mammography (DM) and digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) for the detection of breast cancer in comparison to histopathology findings. Subjects and Methods: We included 65 breast lesions in 58 women, each detected by two diagnostic mammography techniques – DM and DBT using Senographe Essential (GE Healthcare, Buc, France) – and subsequently confirmed by histopathology. The Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System was used for characterizing the lesions. Results: The average age of women was 48.3 years (range 26–81 years). There were 34 malignant and 31 benign breast lesions. The sensitivity of DM and DBT was 73.5 and 100%, respectively, while the specificity was 67.7 and 94%, respectively. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed an overall diagnostic advantage of DBT over DM, with a significant difference between DBT and DM (p &
research-article	MPP495786	"Relationship between Aortic Arch Calcification, Detected by Chest X-Ray, and Renal Resistive Index in Patients with Hypertension Relationship between Aortic Arch Calcification, Detected by Chest X-Ray, and Renal Resistive Index in Patients with Hypertension Objective: Aortic arch calcification (AAC) is a surrogate marker for arterial stiffness and hypertension-related vascular damage. Renal resistive index (RRI), a renal Doppler ultrasonography parameter, is used to assess renal hemodynamics. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the relationship between RRI and AAC in patients with hypertension. Methods: Patients with hypertension underwent a chest X-ray and re nal Doppler ultrasonography. They were divided into two groups according to RRI (group 1: RRI ≥0.70; group 2: RRI &"
research-article	MPP495881	"Association between Diabetes Mellitus and Periodontal Diseases: A Survey of the Opinions of Dental Professionals Association between Diabetes Mellitus and Periodontal Diseases: A Survey of the Opinions of Dental Professionals Objective: This cross-sectional survey aimed to assess the knowledge of dentists and dental assistants practicing in Saudi Arabia regarding diabetes mellitus (DM) and periodontal diseases. Subjects and Methods: We used a pretested, closed-ended, multiple-choice questionnaire covering 2 principal sections: the assessment of previous educational training and practice, and the knowledge and scientific background regarding DM and periodontal diseases. The responses were grouped using the Likert-type scale. Results: The questionnaire showed a high reliability value of 0.805 as determined by a Cronbach’s α. Out of 365 subjects who were initially interviewed, 239 subjects participated (response rate 65.5%): general dentists (45.6%) and dental hygienists and assistants (54.4%). Of the participating dentists, 70.4% were males; in contrast, 87.7% of dental assistants were female. Eighty-five percent of the participants strongly agreed that evidence supports the association between periodontal diseases and DM. Remarkably, dental assistants (78%) agreed more than dentists (68.5%) that diabetic patients with periodontal conditions would have worse glycemic control compared to diabetic patients with no periodontal diseases. Seventy-five percent of the respondents were confident about performing oral health screening for diabetic patients. Significantly more dental assistants showed their desire to expand their practice to include oral health screening (85%) and education compared to dentists (74%). Conclusions: Both dentists and dental assistants in Saudi Arabia revealed a satisfactory knowledge level regarding the periodontal disease-diabetes interactions with no significant difference between the two groups. Further studies are recommended to assess the attitude of dental care providers while dealing with diabetic patients."
research-article	MPP495915	"Knowledge about and Attitudes of Interdisciplinary Team Members toward Occupational Therapy Practice: Implications and Future Directions Knowledge about and Attitudes of Interdisciplinary Team Members toward Occupational Therapy Practice: Implications and Future Directions Objectives: In Kuwait, knowledge and attitudes of the health care teams toward occupational therapy practice (OTP) have not been investigated. This current study sought to explore the knowledge about and attitudes of interdisciplinary team members toward OTP. Subjects and Methods: This cross-sectional study involved developing and validating a tool to serve the purpose of the study. We used a modified Delphi method to develop a tool that assessed occupational therapy (OT) knowledge (OT areas of practice, domains, and philosophy) as well as attitudes toward OTP. Descriptive statistics were utilized, and nonparametric tests were used to compare knowledge and attitudes along with the demographic data. Results: A convenience sample of 98 participants from various disciplines participated in this study. The tool was found to have an adequate content validity for a total of 27 items and satisfactory reliability (internal consistency); Cronbach’s α-values for the knowledge and attitudes subscales were 0.88 and 0.74, respectively. The overall knowledge level of OTP among the participants was limited, whereas their attitudes were favorable. Characteristics of being a female (p = 0.01), a nurse (p = 0.02), and working experiences ≥10 years (p = 0.01) contributed significantly to the knowledge of OTP. The results further indicated that participants working in general hospitals (p = 0.02) and working with occupational therapists (p &"
case-report	MPP495938	Unusual Maculopapular Rash on the Scalp of a Patient with Mediterranean Spotted Fever Unusual Maculopapular Rash on the Scalp of a Patient with Mediterranean Spotted Fever Objective: To report a rare case of maculopapular rash on the scalp in a patient with Mediterranean spotted fever (MSF). Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 58-year-old woman with breast cancer and chemotherapy-induced alopecia contracted MSF. Her clinical features were typical, except for a maculopapular rash covering the scalp. The diagnosis of MSF was confirmed by immunofluorescent assay. The disease had a favorable course and the patient was discharged in good condition. Conclusion: The rash on the scalp described in this report enriches our knowledge on the clinical characteristics of MSF.
case-report	MPP496105	Blue Rubber Bleb Nevus Syndrome: A Possible Cause for Growth Retardation and Pubertal Delay Blue Rubber Bleb Nevus Syndrome: A Possible Cause for Growth Retardation and Pubertal Delay Objective: The aim of this paper was to describe a rare case of blue rubber bleb nevus (BRBNS) with growth retardation and pubertal delay. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 16-year-old boy with severe iron deficiency anemia was diagnosed with BRBNS, showing growth retardation and pubertal delay simultaneously. The patient was treated conservatively with intravenous iron therapy, and his puberty advanced gradually. Conclusion: Given that growth retardation and pubertal delay are rare in BRBNS patients, this case reminds us to include BRBNS in the differential diagnosis of growth retardation.
case-report	MPP496342	A Case of Massive Cerebral Arterial Air Embolism Induced by Artificial Pneumothorax and Its Analysis A Case of Massive Cerebral Arterial Air Embolism Induced by Artificial Pneumothorax and Its Analysis Objective: This study aimed to investigate the characteristics of cerebral arterial air embolism. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: The clinical data of a patient with cerebral arterial air embolism induced during artificial pneumothorax was retrospectively analyzed. The patient needed the induction of artificial pneumothorax for medical thoracoscopy, but developed hemiplegia and disturbance of consciousness during the induction, and cerebral arterial air embolism was detected by head computed tomography. Conclusion: Artificial pneumothorax may induce cerebral arterial air embolism.
meta-analysis	MPP496447	"A Meta-analysis on the Relationship Between Hair Dye and the Incidence of Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma A Meta-analysis on the Relationship Between Hair Dye and the Incidence of Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma Background: Epidemiologic studies have suggested hair dye to be a risk factor for many cancers. However, previous studies on the association between the personal use of hair dye and risk of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) have been inconclusive. Methods: Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library and Web of Science databases, as well as the references cited in included studies, were searched for relevant studies up to February 10, 2015. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were applied to assess the strength of the association. Publication bias was evaluated using a funnel plot by Egger’s and Begg’s tests. Results: A total of 16 studies were included in the analysis, including 13 case-control studies and three cohort studies. The present meta-analysis results revealed that the risk of NHL in a high population of hair dye users was 14% (OR = 1.14, 95% CI: 1.01-1.29). Furthermore, individuals who used more than 20 pack-years of hair dye had increased risk of NHL. Conclusion: The outcomes indicate that hair dye use increases the risk of NHL, especially for females. Hence, people who frequently use hair dyes or have been using hair dyes for more than 20 years should minimize their exposure to hair dye products to prevent the risk of NHL. &lt;br&gt; &lt;br&gt; &lt;br&gt;"
research-article	MSY348327	Variable Somatic TIE2 Mutations in Half of Sporadic Venous Malformations Variable Somatic TIE2 Mutations in Half of Sporadic Venous Malformations Venous malformations (VMs) are the most frequent vascular malformations referred to specialized vascular anomaly centers. A rare (1-2%) familial form, termed cutaneomucosal venous malformation (VMCM), is caused by gain-of-function mutations in TIE2. More recently, sporadic VMs, characterized by the presence of large unifocal lesions, were shown to be caused by somatic mutations in TIE2. These include a frequent L914F change, and a series of double mutations in cis. All of which cause ligand-independent receptor hyperphosphorylation in vitro. Here, we expanded our study to assess the range of mutations that cause sporadic VM. To test for somatic changes, we screened the entire coding region of TIE2 in cDNA from resected VMs by direct sequencing. We detected TIE2 mutations in 17/30 (56.7%) of the samples. In addition to previously detected mutations, we identified 7 novel somatic intracellular TIE2 mutations in sporadic VMs, including 3 that cause premature protein truncation.
research-article	MSY348675	"Genotypes and Phenotypes of 162 Families with a Glomulin Mutation Genotypes and Phenotypes of 162 Families with a Glomulin Mutation A decade ago, we identified a novel gene, glomulin (GLMN) in which mutations cause glomuvenous malformations (GVMs). GVMs are bluish-purple cutaneous vascular lesions with characteristic glomus cells in the walls of distended venous channels. The discovery of the genetic basis for GVMs allowed the definition of clinical features to distinguish GVMs from other venous anomalies. The variation in phenotype was also highlighted: from a single punctate blue dot to a large plaque-like lesion. In this study, we screened GLMN in a large cohort of patients to broaden the spectrum of mutations, define their frequency and search for possible genotype-phenotype correlations. Taking into account 6 families published by others, a mutation in GLMN has been found in 162 families. This represents 40 different mutations; the most frequent one being present in almost 45% of them. Expressivity varies largely, without a genotype/phenotype relationship. Among 381 individuals with a mutation, we discovered 37 unaffected carriers, implying a penetrance of 90%. As nonpenetrant individuals may transmit the disease to their descendants, knowledge on the mutational status is needed for appropriate genetic counseling."
case-report	MSY442506	Pre- and Postnatal Analysis of Chromosome 15q26.1 and 8p23.1 Deletions in Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia Pre- and Postnatal Analysis of Chromosome 15q26.1 and 8p23.1 Deletions in Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is defined as a protrusion of abdominal content into the thoracic cavity through an abnormal opening in the diaphragm present at birth. It is a common birth defect with high mortality and morbidity. Submicroscopic deletions of 15q26.1 and 8p23.1 have been reported in several cases of CDH. We studied a total of 17 cases with CDH in pre- and postnatal samples using FISH probes. Deletion 15q26.1 was seen in 1/17 prenatal samples. There was no deletion for 8p23.1 in all the samples analyzed. CDH has a genetic etiology, and deletion 15q26.1 increases the risk of CDH. Deletion 15q26.1 in a fetus with CDH is a predictor of poor prognosis. This deletion is also seen in a phenotype similar to Fryns syndrome. CDH identified pre- or postnatally should be investigated further to exclude a 15q26.1 deletion and enable appropriate parental counseling.
review-article	MSY493106	The Osteogenic Potential of the Neural Crest Lineage May Contribute to Craniosynostosis The Osteogenic Potential of the Neural Crest Lineage May Contribute to Craniosynostosis The craniofacial skeleton is formed from the neural crest and mesodermal lineages, both of which contribute mesenchymal precursors during formation of the skull bones. The large majority of cranial sutures also includes a proportion of neural crest-derived mesenchyme. While some studies have addressed the relative healing abilities of neural crest and mesodermal bone, relatively little attention has been paid to differences in intrinsic osteogenic potential. Here, we use mouse models to compare neural crest osteoblasts (from frontal bones or dura mater) to mesodermal osteoblasts (from parietal bones). Using in vitro culture approaches, we find that neural crest-derived osteoblasts readily generate bony nodules, while mesodermal osteoblasts do so less efficiently. Furthermore, we find that co-culture of neural crest-derived osteoblasts with mesodermal osteoblasts is sufficient to nucleate ossification centres. Altogether, this suggests that the intrinsic osteogenic abilities of neural crest-derived mesenchyme may be a primary driver behind craniosynostosis.
review-article	MSY493535	Current Approaches in the Development of Molecular and Pharmacological Therapies in Craniosynostosis Utilizing Animal Models Current Approaches in the Development of Molecular and Pharmacological Therapies in Craniosynostosis Utilizing Animal Models The development of the craniofacial skeleton is a spatial and temporal process where cranial sutures play a role in the regulation of morphogenesis and growth. Disruption of these cellular and molecular interactions may lead to craniosynostosis, the premature obliteration of one or more cranial sutures, yielding skull growth restriction and malformation perpendicular to the affected suture. Facial deformity and various functional CNS anomalies are other frequent complications. Cranial vault expansion and reconstructive surgery remain the mainstay of treatment but pose an elevated risk of morbidity for the infant. While the etiology of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis remains to be deciphered, gain-of-function mutations in FGFR1-3 and TWIST1 were found to be responsible for more than 3/4 of the most commonly encountered craniofacial syndromes. Animal models have been invaluable to further dissect the role of genes within the cranial sutures and for the development of alternative nonsurgical treatment strategies. In this review, we will present various molecular and pharmacological approaches for the treatment of craniosynostosis that have been tested using in vitro and in vivo assays as well as discuss their potential application in humans focusing on the case of tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
research-article	MSY494451	Distal Arthrogryposis with Impaired Proprioception and Touch: Description of an Early Phenotype in a Boy with Compound Heterozygosity of PIEZO2 Mutations and Review of the Literature Distal Arthrogryposis with Impaired Proprioception and Touch: Description of an Early Phenotype in a Boy with Compound Heterozygosity of PIEZO2 Mutations and Review of the Literature The recessive PIEZO2-associated disease, distal arthrogryposis with impaired proprioception and touch (DAIPT), is characterized by hypotonia, perinatal respiratory distress, significantly delayed motor milestones, and progressive symptoms of distal arthrogryposis and scoliosis. Here, we describe the youngest patient with DAIPT to date, who, at the age of 3.5 years, did not show a single clinical sign of distal arthrogryposis or contractures, but had a history of bilateral clubfoot operations. On the contrary, he presented with some features, not described thus far, such as syringohydromyelia, a small cyst of the spinal cord, moderate microcephaly with premature closure of anterior fontanelle, and spontaneous unilateral patella dislocation at the age of 32 months. Using whole exome sequencing, we identified 2 new different loss-of-function mutations in the PIEZO2 gene in our patient. We also review the phenotypes of all 16 previously published patients with DAIPT, summarize the distinctive clinical features of this rare genetic disorder, and recommend that DAIPT be included in the differential diagnosis of floppy infant. PIEZO2 is a unique ion channel that converts mechanical impulses into cellular signals and is involved in various mechanotransduction pathways. In addition to DAIPT, mutations in PIEZO2 have been described to cause 3 more distinct phenotypes of distal arthrogryposis, which are dominant and associated with gain-of-function mutations. On the contrary, recessive DAIPT is associated with loss-of-function PIEZO2 mutations.
case-report	MSY494465	COQ8A and MED25 Mutations in a Child with Intellectual Disability, Microcephaly, Seizures, and Spastic Ataxia: Synergistic Effect of Digenic Variants COQ8A and MED25 Mutations in a Child with Intellectual Disability, Microcephaly, Seizures, and Spastic Ataxia: Synergistic Effect of Digenic Variants We report on a girl, born to first-cousin Lebanese parents, with severe intellectual disability, congenital hip luxation, cardiac malformation, short stature, facial dysmorphic features including microcephaly, sparse hair, bilateral epicanthal folds, ataxia, seizures, and elevated lactate and pyruvate levels in serum. Whole exome sequencing was carried out on the patient's DNA. Potentially causal homozygous variants in the MED25 (p.Ile173Thr) and COQ8A (p.Arg512Trp) genes were found. The potential pathogenicity of these variants, and the possibility that the 2 variants could synergistically act to produce the phenotype reported, is discussed.
case-report	MSY494645	"Thrombocytopenia and Predisposition to Acute Myeloid Leukemia due to Mosaic Ring 21 with Loss of RUNX1: Cytogenetic and Molecular Characterization Thrombocytopenia and Predisposition to Acute Myeloid Leukemia due to Mosaic Ring 21 with Loss of RUNX1: Cytogenetic and Molecular Characterization Familial platelet disorder with predisposition to acute myeloid leukemia (FPD/AML) has been well documented in the literature and is a new entity within the latest revised edition of the WHO Classification of Tumors of Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues (OMIM). The disorder arises due to mutations within the RUNX1 gene in chromosome 21; mutations within the Runt-binding domain are the most commonly encountered anomalies that cause decreased platelet count and function. Rare cases of haploinsufficiency have also been shown to cause this disorder. Here, we describe a 12-year-old female with mosaicism for a ring chromosome 21 and monosomy 21 who was born with thrombocytopenia which is now explained by loss of the RUNX1 gene resulting in FPD/AML. We also comment on the structure of the ring and the mechanism of its formation."
case-report	MSY494681	"17p13.1 Microduplication Syndrome in a Child, Familial Short Stature, and Growth Hormone Deficiency: A Case Report and Review of the Literature 17p13.1 Microduplication Syndrome in a Child, Familial Short Stature, and Growth Hormone Deficiency: A Case Report and Review of the Literature To date, 6 cases of 17p13.1 microduplications have been described in the literature. Intellectual disability is the core feature, together with minor facial dysmorphisms and obesity. We describe the first case of a young patient with a maternally inherited microduplication in 17p13.1 presenting with growth hormone deficiency. The boy was addressed to the endocrine division for growth retardation (weight and height &lt;3rd percentile). Besides minor facial dysmorphisms, physical and neurological examinations were normal except for motor dyspraxia. Basic blood tests and endocrinological investigations were normal, but IGF1 levels were low for his age. Growth hormone deficiency was confirmed. Hypothalamic pituitary MRI was normal. His karyotype was 46XY. Array-CGH analysis detected a 422-kb copy number gain in the spanning region 17p13.1 inherited from his mother. Although familial short stature is considered a “normal” variation of growth retardation, hormonal and genetic investigation is essential in the etiological diagnosis."
case-report	MSY494796	8p11 Microduplication Is Associated with Neonatal Stridor 8p11 Microduplication Is Associated with Neonatal Stridor We report a term male infant with congenital stridor secondary to tracheomalacia and a mild coarctation of the aorta. Developmental delay was noted upon follow-up. Whole genome SNP microarray analysis showed an ∼846-kb interstitial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 8 (8p11.21p11.1). We report novel clinical findings of this rare genetic condition.
case-report	MSY494995	Extending the Phenotype and Identification of a Novel Candidate Gene for Immunodeficiency in 5q11 Microdeletion Syndrome Extending the Phenotype and Identification of a Novel Candidate Gene for Immunodeficiency in 5q11 Microdeletion Syndrome Array CGH has led to the delineation of innumerable microdeletion syndromes. We present a patient with a 7-Mb deletion at 5q11.2 with previously unreported features, such as immunodeficiency, asymmetry of hands and feet, joint laxity, and agenesis of corpus callosum. The clinical features of this patient are compared with 13 patients reported previously. A common critical region (CCR) of 1.4 Mb (54-55.4 Mb) is defined in all cases including the present one. Of the 14 genes present in CCR, IL6ST is proposed to be the candidate gene for immunodeficiency observed in some of these patients. IL6ST encodes gp130, a signal transduction protein for various interleukins and cytokines. It is involved in the generation of both T and B lymphocytes as well as the production of acute-phase reactants. Microdeletion 5q11.2 should be considered as a recognisable syndrome based on the common phenotype and the novel features described.
review-article	MSY495778	Combined Phenotypes of Spondylometaphyseal Dysplasia-Kozlowski Type and Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease Type 2C Secondary to a TRPV4 Pathogenic Variant Combined Phenotypes of Spondylometaphyseal Dysplasia-Kozlowski Type and Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease Type 2C Secondary to a TRPV4 Pathogenic Variant TRPV4, a nonselective calcium permeable ion channel, is expressed broadly in many organs including bone and neurons. Pathogenic variants in TRPV4 are known to cause both a spectrum of skeletal dysplasias and neuropathies. Recent publications have documented a few patients who have a combined phenotype of skeletal dysplasia and neuropathy secondary to TRPV4 pathogenic variants. We present an additional patient who has an overlapping neuromuscular and skeletal phenotype secondary to a TRPV4 pathogenic variant. The patient has spondylometaphyseal dysplasia-Kozlowski type and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2C. This and prior reports illustrate that TRPV4-related skeletal dysplasias and TRPV4-related neuropathies are not fully distinct disorders secondary to unique sets of pathogenic variants as originally postulated, but rather are 2 phenotypes on the same spectrum that may or may not overlap. We suggest that evaluation for patients presenting with any TRPV4-related disorder include assessment for both skeletal and neurological findings.
review-article	NDD295660	"Cholesterol and Cognitive Performance in Normal Controls and the Influence of Elective Statin Use after Conversion to Mild Cognitive Impairment: Results in a Clinical Trial Cohort Cholesterol and Cognitive Performance in Normal Controls and the Influence of Elective Statin Use after Conversion to Mild Cognitive Impairment: Results in a Clinical Trial Cohort Background: We reported a significant 67% reduction in the hazard risk of incident Alzheimer’s disease (AD) with elective statin use in the AD Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial (ADAPT), without a reduction in risk of incident mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Objective: To assess if cholesterol levels are associated with cognitive performance and determine if statin use alters cognitive performance after onset of MCI. Design: Fractionated cholesterol levels, neurological and cognitive status were evaluated annually. Comparisons of non-LLA (lipid-lowering agent) users or statin-LLA users were performed blind to the ADAPT medication randomization. Pearson’s correlations were validated using a time-dependent linear mixed model. Results: The MMSE performance significantly declined over time in non-LLA users, and, after adjusting for this, a significant positive correlation between MMSE and HDL was identified (p = 0.0002). A negative correlation between total and LDL cholesterol, and immediate and delayed recall of the Rivermead paragraph was significant (total cholesterol, p &lt; 0.003; LDL, p &lt; 0.02). Pilot data suggest a positive signal on delayed recall of both the Hopkins word list and Rivermead paragraph with deterioration in the non-LLA users and improvement in the statin users after conversion to MCI. Conclusion: Cholesterol levels may be associated with differential performance on the MMSE and measures of learning or memory. The trend for improved delayed recall in statin users with MCI compared to non-LLA users with MCI may have contributed to the reduced hazards risk of incident AD without reducing the risk of MCI."
review-article	NDD295661	Effect of Heparin on APP Metabolism and Aβ Production in Cortical Neurons Effect of Heparin on APP Metabolism and Aβ Production in Cortical Neurons Background: The β-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is a major target for drug design in Alzheimer’s disease. BACE1 binds strongly to heparin and other glycosaminoglycans, and there is evidence that the enzyme may interact with proteoglycans in vivo. Several studies suggest that heparin or heparan sulfate analogues may have value as therapeutic agents for the treatment of AD. Objective: To determine whether heparin can inhibit Aβ production in cortical neurons by inhibiting BACE1. Methods: Cortical neurons from APP (SW) Tg2576 mice were incubated with heparin and the amount of APP processing and Aβ production were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Western blotting. Results: Treatment of cortical neurons with heparin inhibited Aβ secretion. However, this effect was not mediated via inhibition of BACE1. Conclusions: Heparin or other glycosaminoglycans may have value for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. However, the data do not support the view that a heparin-induced decrease in Aβ secretion is due to inhibition of BACE1.
review-article	NDD295665	Effects of Dopamine Agonists on Neuropsychiatric Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease Effects of Dopamine Agonists on Neuropsychiatric Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease The efficacy of dopamine (DA) agonists in the treatment of motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease (PD) has been clearly demonstrated. It has also been documented that DA agonists may have both a positive and a negative impact on neuropsychiatric symptoms in PD patients. This paper will focus on the effects of DA agonists on depressive and cognitive symptoms of PD.
review-article	NDD295666	Future Strategies for Neuroprotection in Parkinson’s Disease Future Strategies for Neuroprotection in Parkinson’s Disease The development of a drug or combination of drugs to slow or stop the progression of Parkinson’s disease is the most important goal in this disease area. An understanding of the complex etiology and pathogenesis of the disorder is essential in this process. However, the current pathways to disease pathogenesis identified from the genetic causes of Parkinson’s disease offer optimism in the sense that they appear to converge and interconnect rather than diverge. Problems include the limited applicability of current models and the ability to test drugs at the right dose in clinical trials with suitable end points. Trials conducted so far have provided some indication of a positive effect, although the mechanism underlying this is not yet known.
meta-analysis	NDD367995	"UCH-L1 S18Y Variant and Risk of Parkinson's Disease in Asian Populations: An Updated Meta-Analysis UCH-L1 S18Y Variant and Risk of Parkinson's Disease in Asian Populations: An Updated Meta-Analysis The ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) gene has been implicated in the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Several studies have evaluated the association between the UCH-L1 S18Y variant and the risk of PD. However, conflicting results have been reported. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to explore whether the UCH-L1 S18Y variant is associated with susceptibility to PD in Asians. A database search in Web of Science, MEDLINE, Embase and PubMed up to March 2014 identified 10 studies comprising 4,897 PD patients and 4,446 controls in total, which were included in this meta-analysis. In an updated meta-analysis, no significant associations between the S18Y polymorphism and PD in Asians were observed in recessive [p = 0.28, odds ratio (OR) = 1.47, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.86-1.04] or dominant models (p = 0.46, OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.88-1.06). In the subgroup analysis by ethnicity, still no significant association was detected in dominant (for Chinese, OR = 0.97, 95% CI: 0.85-1.10; for Japanese, OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.83-1.11) and recessive models (for Chinese, OR = 0.99, 95% CI: 0.88-1.11; for Japanese, OR = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.76-1.04). The results of this meta-analysis suggested that the UCHL-1 S18Y polymorphism was not associated with the risk of PD in Asians. To our knowledge, this is the latest and largest meta-analysis assessing the association of the UCHL-1 S18Y variant with the risk of PD in Asian ancestry."
review-article	NDD478741	Lessons from Anti-Amyloid-β Immunotherapies in Alzheimer Disease: Aiming at a Moving Target Lessons from Anti-Amyloid-β Immunotherapies in Alzheimer Disease: Aiming at a Moving Target Background: Available drugs for the global Alzheimer disease (AD) epidemic only treat the symptoms without modifying disease progression. Accumulating evidence supports amyloid-β42 (Aβ42)as the key triggering agent in AD, making it the ideal target for disease-modifying therapies. Preclinical studies provided extensive support for passive Aβ42 immunotherapy, leading to human clinical trials with different antibodies. Objective: Examine the status of clinical trials for passive immunotherapy against Aβ42. Methods: We performed a thorough literature review of passive Aβ42 immunotherapy. Results: Ten anti-Aβ42 antibodies targeting lineal or conformational epitopes have been tested in clinical trials. Antibody engineering and appropriate dosing have overcome undesired side effects, leading to increased safety profiles. Unfortunately, few trials have shown cognitive protection, leading to legitimate questions about the utility of Aβ42 as an AD target. There is still hope that solanezumab, aducanumab, and other ongoing trials will identify antibodies, patient subpopulations, and administration protocols, with consistent clinical benefits. Conclusions: Despite the overall disappointing results, there is still hope that Aβ immunotherapy in presymptomatic patients will prevent neuronal loss and provide significant clinical benefits that can be applied to larger populations as preventive therapies. Advances with other targets may soon provide additional therapeutic options for AD with increased efficacy.
review-article	NEC299800	Chapter 3: UK ESRD Incident Rates in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 3: UK ESRD Incident Rates in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Introduction: This chapter describes the characteristics of adult patients starting renal replacement therapy (RRT) in the UK in 2008 and the acceptance rates for RRT in Primary Care Trusts and Local Authorities (PCT/LAs) in the UK. Methods: The basic demographics and clinical characteristics are reported on patients starting RRT from all UK renal centres. Late referral, defined as time between first being seen by a nephrologist and start of RRT being &
review-article	NEC301158	Chapter 2: Introduction Chapter 2: Introduction The 12th Annual Report from the UK Renal Registry (UKRR) contains analyses of data submitted from every centre providing clinical supervision of renal replacement therapy (RRT) in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and (via the Scottish Renal Registry) Scotland. The data are largely extracted direct from clinical information systems used for direct clinical care [1] and the inclusion of laboratory data permit analyses not only of the incidence, prevalence, and outcomes of RRT in the UK, but also the achievement of clinical performance measures as defined by the Renal Association&
review-article	NEC301159	Chapter 4: UK ESRD Prevalent Rates in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 4: UK ESRD Prevalent Rates in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Introduction: This chapter describes the characteristics of adult patients on renal replacement therapy (RRT) in the UK in 2008 and the prevalence rate per million population (pmp) in Primary Care Trusts and local authorities (Council Areas or District Councils) (PCT/LAs) were calculated. Methods: Complete data were electronically collected from all 72 renal centres within the UK. A series of cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses were performed to describe the demographics of prevalent RRT patients in 2008 at centre and national level in the UK. Age and gender standardised ratios of actual to expected for prevalence rates in PCT/LAs were calculated. Results: There were 47,525 adult patients receiving RRT in the UK on 31/12/2008, equating to a UK prevalence of 774 pmp. This represents an annual increase in prevalence of approximately 4.4% although there was significant variation between PCT/LA areas. The pmp growth rate from 2007 to 2008 for prevalent patients by treatment modality in the UK was 5.9% for haemodialysis (HD), a fall of 9.2% for peritoneal dialysis (PD) and growth of 4.6% with a functioning transplant. Over the long term (1982–2007), the steady growth in transplant prevalent numbers was maintained at 4%. There was a slow but steady decline in PD patient numbers from 1999 onwards. Median RRT vintage was 5.3 years. The median age of prevalent patients was 57.3 years (HD 65.5 years, PD 61.0 years and transplant 50.4 years). For all ages, prevalence rates in males exceeded those in females peaking in the 75–79 years age group at 2,582 pmp for males and 70–74 years age group at 1,408 pmp for females. The most common identifiable renal diagnosis was biopsy-proven glomerulonephritis (16.0%), followed by diabetes (14.1%). Transplantation was the most common treatment modality (47%) followed closely by HD (43%). However, HD was increasingly common with increasing older age at the expense of transplantation. Conclusions: The HD and transplant population continued to expand whilst the PD population contracted. There was national, regional and dialysis centre level variation in prevalence rates. This has implications for service planning and ensuring equity of care for RRT patients.
review-article	NEC301160	"Chapter 5: Demographic and Biochemistry Profile of Kidney Transplant Recipients in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 5: Demographic and Biochemistry Profile of Kidney Transplant Recipients in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Introduction: National renal transplant registries routinely report on centre-specific patient and graft survival following renal transplantation. However, other outcomes such as graft function (as measured by eGFR), haemoglobin and blood pressure are also important indicators of quality of care. Methods: Transplant activity and incident graft survival data were obtained from NHS Blood and Trans-plant, laboratory and clinical variables and prevalent survival data were obtained from the UK Renal Registry. Data were analysed separately for prevalent and one year post-transplant patients. Results: Increasing live and nonheartbeating donors were responsible for the increasing transplant activity. Graft failure occurred in 2.9% of prevalent transplant patients and death rates remained stable at 2.4/100 patient years. In transplant recipients with a specified cause of death, 21% died due to malignancy and 21% as a consequence of cardiac disease. There was centre variation in outcomes including eGFR and haemoglobin in prevalent and 1 year post-transplant recipients. Analysis of prevalent transplants by chronic kidney disease stage showed 14.7% with an eGFR &lt;30 ml/min/1.73 m2 and 2.1% &lt;15 ml/min/1.73 m2. Of those with CKD stage 5T, 40.4% had Hb concentrations &lt;10.5 g/dl, 25.9% phosphate concentrations ≧1.8 mmol/L, 9.0% adjusted calcium concentrations ≧2.6 mmol/L and 40.8% PTH concentrations ≧32 pmol/L. With the exception of PTH, transplant recipients with CKD stage 5T were less likely to achieve the UK standards compared to prevalent dialysis patients. Conclusion: Wide variations in clinical and biochemical outcomes amongst transplant recipients continue to exist and may reflect differences in healthcare delivery across the UK."
review-article	NEC301161	Chapter 6: Comorbidities and Current Smoking Status amongst Patients starting Renal Replacement Therapy in England, Wales and Northern Ireland from 2003 to 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 6: Comorbidities and Current Smoking Status amongst Patients starting Renal Replacement Therapy in England, Wales and Northern Ireland from 2003 to 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Introduction: The prevalence of comorbidities in incident renal replacement therapy (RRT) patients changes with age and varies between ethnic groups. This study describes these associations and the independent effect of comorbidities on outcomes. Methods: Adult patients starting RRT between 2003 and 2008 in centres reporting to the UK Renal Registry (UKRR) with data on comorbidity (n &
review-article	NEC301162	Chapter 7: Survival and Causes of Death of UK Adult Patients on Renal Replacement Therapy in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 7: Survival and Causes of Death of UK Adult Patients on Renal Replacement Therapy in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Introduction: These analyses examine survival from the start of renal replacement therapy (RRT), based on the total incident UK RRT population reported to the UK Renal Registry, including the 19% who started on PD and the 5% who received a pre-emptive transplant. Survival of prevalent patients and changes in survival between 1997 and 2007 are also reported. Methods: Survival was calculated for both incident and prevalent patients on RRT and compared between the UK countries after adjustment for age. Survival of incident patients (starting RRT during 2007) was calculated both from the start of RRT and amongst the cohort who survived at least 90 days after RRT, and both with and without censoring at transplantation. Both the Kaplan–Meier and Cox adjusted models were used to calculate survival. Causes of death were analysed for both groups. Relative risk of death was calculated compared with the general UK population. Results: The 2007 unadjusted 1 year after 90 day survival for patients starting RRT was 86.2%. In incident 18–64 year olds the unadjusted 1 year survival had risen from 85.9% in 1997 to 92.4% in 2007 and for those aged &
review-article	NEC301163	Chapter 8: Adequacy of Haemodialysis in UK Renal Centres in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 8: Adequacy of Haemodialysis in UK Renal Centres in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Background: Outcome in patients treated with haemodialysis (HD) is influenced by the delivered dose of dialysis. The UK Renal Association (RA) publishes Clinical Practice Guidelines which include recommendations for dialysis dose. The urea reduction ratio (URR) is a widely used measure of dialysis dose. Aim: To determine the extent to which patients received the recommended dose of HD in the UK. Methods: Seventy-two renal centres in the UK submit data electronically to the UK Renal Registry (UKRR). Two groups of patients were included in the analyses: the prevalent patient population on 31st December 2008 and the incident patient population for 2008. Centres returning data on &
review-article	NEC301164	Chapter 9: Anaemia Variables in UK Adult Dialysis Patients in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 9: Anaemia Variables in UK Adult Dialysis Patients in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Background: The UK Renal Association (RA) and National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) have published Clinical Practice Guidelines which include recommendations for management of anaemia in established renal failure. Aims: To determine the extent to which the guidelines for anaemia management are met in the UK. Methods: Quarterly data (haemoglobin (Hb) and factors that influence Hb) extracts from renal centres in England, Wales, Northern Ireland (EWNI), and annual data from the Scottish Renal Registry for incident and prevalent renal replacement therapy (RRT) cohorts for 2008 were analysed by the UK Renal Registry (UKRR). Results: In the UK, in 2008 57% of patients commenced dialysis therapy with Hb &
review-article	NEC301233	Chapter 10: Biochemistry Profile of Patients Receiving Dialysis in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 10: Biochemistry Profile of Patients Receiving Dialysis in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Introduction: The UK Renal Association Clinical Practice Guidelines include clinical performance measures for biochemical parameters in dialysis patients [1]. The UK Renal Registry (UKRR) annually audits dialysis centre performance against these measures as part of its role in promoting continuous quality improvement. Methods: Cross sectional performance analyses were undertaken to compare dialysis centre achievement of clinical performance measures for prevalent haemodialysis (HD) and peritoneal dialysis (PD) cohorts in 2008. The biochemical variables studied were phosphate, adjusted calcium, calcium phosphate product, parathyroid hormone, bicarbonate, total cholesterol and HbA1c. In addition, longitudinal analyses were performed (2000–2008) to show changes in achievement of clinical performance measures over time. Results: Serum phosphate was between 1.1 and 1.8 mmol/L in 55% of HD and 64% of PD patients, which was similar to 2007. There was a fall in overall mean phosphate concentration to 1.55 mmol/L. A revised adjusted serum calcium target of 2.2–2.5 mmol/L was achieved by 63% of HD and 65% of PD patients. For comparison, the previous target of 2.2–2.6 mmol/L was achieved by 74% and 78% respectively, a figure little changed since 2005. The downward trend in serum calcium results evident for the previous nine years appears to have halted. The calcium phosphate target of &
review-article	NEC301234	Chapter 11: Blood Pressure Profile of Prevalent Patients Receiving Dialysis in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 11: Blood Pressure Profile of Prevalent Patients Receiving Dialysis in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Introduction: The UK Renal Registry (UKRR) assesses blood pressure (BP) control annually for patients receiving renal replacement therapy (RRT) at renal centres in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. Methods: Patients alive and receiving RRT on 31st December 2008 with a BP reading in either the fourth or third quarter of 2008 were included. Summary statistics were calculated for each renal centre, nation and primary renal disease (PRD) category. Longitudinal analyses were performed to assess the long-term impact of treatment modality and PRD on BP control for incident and prevalent patients. Results: In 2008, only 26.3% of peritoneal dialysis (PD) and 27.4% of transplant (Tx) patients achieved the Renal Association (RA) guidelines standard of BP &
review-article	NEC301235	Chapter 12: Epidemiology of Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Bacteraemia Amongst Patients Receiving Dialysis for Established Renal Failure in England in 2008: a joint report from the UK Renal Registry and the Health Protection Agency Chapter 12: Epidemiology of Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Bacteraemia Amongst Patients Receiving Dialysis for Established Renal Failure in England in 2008: a joint report from the UK Renal Registry and the Health Protection Agency Background: From April 2007, all centres providing renal replacement therapy in England were asked to provide additional data on patients with Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteraemia using a secure web based system established to capture data for the mandatory surveillance of MRSA bacteramia. Results: From April 2008 until March 2009 171 discrete episodes of MRSA bacteraemia were identified from the Health Protection Agency database as being potentially associated with patients in established renal failure (ERF) requiring dialysis. Of 171 records, 18 records were rejected by renal centres as not being associated with patients on dialysis or as being duplicates of other records. Following data validation by centres, 139 patients had vascular access documented (no episodes of bacteraemia were recorded amongst patients receiving peritoneal dialysis). Of these patients, 30.2% were utilising an arteriovenous fistula or graft and 69.8% were dialysing on a nontunnelled or tunnelled venous catheter. Two of the patients on arteriovenous fistulae had used venous catheters in the prior 28 days. Eleven patients had more than one episode in the year and accounted for 30 (20%) of the episodes of MRSA bacteraemia. Overall there was a reduction of 22% in episodes from the previous year. The median centre-specific rate of MRSA bacteraemia was 0.64 (range 0–3.49) episodes per 100 haemodialysis patients per year, and 0.55 (range 0–2.89) episodes per 100 dialysis (haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis combined) patients per year. Conclusions: The rate of MRSA bacteraemia in patients requiring long term dialysis continues to fall within the prevalent dialysis population in England, but there is still marked variation in centrespecific rates.
review-article	NEC301236	"Chapter 13: The UK Renal Registry Advanced CKD Study: frequency of incorrect reporting of date of start of RRT Chapter 13: The UK Renal Registry Advanced CKD Study: frequency of incorrect reporting of date of start of RRT Background: A preliminary review of the UK Renal Registry (UKRR) pre-RRT study data revealed results suggesting that, for some patients, the date of start of renal replacement therapy (RRT), as reported to the UKRR, was incorrect and often significantly later than the true date of start. A more detailed study then aimed to validate a set of criteria to identify patients with an incorrect start date. Methods: Pre-RRT laboratory data were electronically extracted from 8,810 incident RRT patients from 9 UK renal centres. Any patient with a low urea (&lt;15 mmol/L) at the start of RRT or with a substantial improvement in kidney function (either a fall in urea &gt;10 mmol/L or rise in eGFR &gt;2 ml/ min/1.73 m) within the two months prior to RRT were considered to potentially have an incorrect date of start. In 4 selected centres, the electronic patient records of all patients flagged were reviewed to validate these criteria. Results: Of 8,810 patients, 1,616 (18.3%) were flagged by the identification criteria as having a potentially incorrect date of start of RRT, although a single centre accounted for 41% of the total flagged cohort. Of these flagged patients, 61.7% had been assigned an incorrect date of start of haemodialysis (HD), 5.7% had evidence of acute RRT being given before the reported date of start of HD and 9.2% had evidence of starting peritoneal dialysis exchanges prior to the reported date of start. Of those flagged, 10.7% had a correct date of start of RRT. Conclusions: Accurate reporting of RRT episodes is vital for the analysis of time dependent studies such as survival or time to transplantation. A proportion of patients starting RRT were assigned an incorrect start date. In order to improve the accuracy of this reporting the UK Renal Registry must work with renal centres and clinical staff on improving data input for the start of RRT."
review-article	NEC301237	Chapter 14: Demography of the UK Paediatric Renal Replacement Therapy population in 2008 Chapter 14: Demography of the UK Paediatric Renal Replacement Therapy population in 2008 Aims: To describe the demographics of the paediatric RRT population in the UK and analyse changes in demographics with time. Methods: Extraction and analysis of data from the UK Paediatric Renal Registry and the UK Renal Registry (UKRR). Results: The UK paediatric established renal failure (ERF) population in December 2008 was 905 patients. The prevalence under the age of 16 years was 56 per million age related population (pmarp) and the incidence 7.4 pmarp. The incidence and prevalence for South Asian patients was much higher than that of the White and Black populations. Renal dysplasia was the most common cause of ERF accounting for 33% of prevalent cases. Diseases with autosomal recessive inheritance were a common cause of ERF in all ethnic groups, 23.5% of prevalent and 18% of incident cases. Whilst the incidence and prevalence of diseases with autosomal recessive inheritance in the South Asian population was 3 times that of the white population, this was not the sole reason for the increased proportion of South Asian patients with ERF, as diseases with no defined inheritance were twice as common in this ethnic group than in White patients. Prevalent mortality stood at 9.4%. Most deaths were in patients presenting with ERF early in life and mortality varied markedly according to the aetiology of ERF. The proportion with new grafts from living donors has steadily risen to 54%. Children from ethnic minority groups were less likely to have an allograft and living donation was less frequent in this population. For those on dialysis, 56% were receiving peritoneal dialysis. This was the main treatment modality for patients under 4 years of age. Conclusions: The paediatric ERF population continued to expand slowly. Incidence and prevalence rates were stable and similar to other developed nations. The high incidence in patients from ethnic minority groups will lead to a greater proportion of the population being from these groups in time. To maintain the high proportion of engrafted patients it will be necessary to encourage living donation in the ethnic minority population. Case note analysis of the factors involved in mortality would be valuable.
review-article	NEC301238	Chapter 15: Clinical, Haematological and Biochemical Parameters in Patients receiving Renal Replacement Therapy in Paediatric Centres in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Chapter 15: Clinical, Haematological and Biochemical Parameters in Patients receiving Renal Replacement Therapy in Paediatric Centres in the UK in 2008: national and centre-specific analyses Background: The British Association for Paediatric Nephrology Registry was established thirteen years ago to analyse data related to renal replacement therapy for children. The registry receives data from the 13 paediatric nephrology centres in the UK. In 2008 the registry was relocated to the UK Renal Registry (UKRR). Aim: To provide centre specific data so that individual centres can reflect on the contribution that their data makes to the national picture and to determine the extent to which their patient parameters meet nationally agreed audit standards for the management of children with established renal failure. Method: Data were submitted to the UKRR for analysis electronically via renal IT systems from 5 centres and on paper-based returns from the remaining centres. Data were analysed to calculate summary statistics and where applicable the percentage achieving an audit standard. The standards used were those set out by the Renal Association and the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. Results: Data were received from all but one centre. Anthropometric data confirmed that children with ERF in the UK are short compared with their peers with no change in recent trends. In the UK as a whole, the control of blood pressure, anaemia and bone biochemistry is suboptimal, but for some parameters these appear to be better in the 2008 cohort than in the 1999–2008 cohort. Conclusions: Key features of this report are the provision of centre specific data and comparison of data to audit standards. It is hoped that this information will provide a basis for discussion and a stimulus to improve the care of children with ERF.
research-article	NEC346105	"Impact of Peripheral Arterial Occlusive Disease on the Development of Contrast Medium-Induced Acute Kidney Injury Impact of Peripheral Arterial Occlusive Disease on the Development of Contrast Medium-Induced Acute Kidney Injury Background/Aims: Contrast medium-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) is an important complication following the use of iodinated contrast media. It accounts for a significant number of hospital-acquired acute kidney injuries and is associated with increased in-hospital and long-term mortality and immense health care costs. We evaluated whether the presence of peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAD) affects the incidence of CI-AKI following heart catheterization. Methods: The impact of PAD on the frequency of CI-AKI after heart catheterization was analysed in the prospective single-centre Dialysis-versus-Diuresis trial (January 2001 to July 2004). The patients were retrospectively divided into 3 subgroups: patients with coronary heart disease (CHD), patients with PAD and patients without PAD or CHD. Results: 412 patients were included (83.5% men, 29.1% diabetes mellitus, 4.9% ejection fraction &lt;35%). Of these, 251 (60.9%) suffered from CHD but not from PAD, 77 (18.7%) from PAD and 84 (20.4%) had neither CHD nor PAD. After heart catheterization, 49 (11.9 %) patients developed CI-AKI. Patients with PAD suffered significantly more often from CI-AKI than those without PAD (32.7 vs. 16.8%, p = 0.008). Multivariate analyses by logistic regression confirmed PAD to be an independent predictor of a CI-AKI (odds ratio 2.013, 95% confidence interval 1.009-4.016, p = 0.047). The CHD was not significantly associated with CI-AKI. Conclusion: Patients with PAD significantly more often develop a CI-AKI after heart catheterization than those without PAD."
research-article	NEC348509	"The Malnutrition-Inflammation-Depression-Arteriosclerosis Complex Is Associated with an Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Disease and All-Cause Death in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients The Malnutrition-Inflammation-Depression-Arteriosclerosis Complex Is Associated with an Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Disease and All-Cause Death in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Background: In chronic hemodialysis patients, malnutrition, inflammation, depression and arteriosclerosis are pathogenetically associated suggesting the presence of malnutrition-inflammation-depression-arteriosclerosis (MIDA) complex acting as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Methods: Nutritional status was assessed by serum albumin, subjective global assessment and normalized protein catabolic rate (nPCR). Inflammation was assessed by serum high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP). Depression was assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory and DSM-IV criteria. The severity of arteriosclerosis was measured by pulse wave velocity (PWV). Results: Among 81 hemodialysis patients, 44 (54.3%) had malnutrition (albumin &lt;4.0 mg/dl with subjective global assessment score &lt;6 and/or nPCR &lt;1.0) and 39 (48.1%) had inflammation (hsCRP &gt;1 mg/l). The prevalence of depression was 50.6% (n = 41). Fifty-nine (73.8%) had arteriosclerosis (measured PWV &gt; expected PWV based on age/blood pressure/gender adjustment). The severity of the all four individual MIDA components correlated well with each other. The average number of the MIDA complication (MIDA score) was 2.27 ± 1.33. -During the 5-year follow-up, 40 cases of CVD and 26 cases of all-cause death occurred. In Cox analysis adjusted for -previous CVD, age, diabetes, blood pressure, pulse pressure, intradialytic hypotension, B-type natriuretic peptide, -hemoglobin and hemodialysis incompliance, the MIDA score was an independent predictor of CVD and all-cause death: hazard ratio (95% confidence interval); 1.89 (1.13-3.17) and 3.48 (1.32-9.21) for an increase of 1 MIDA score. Conclusions: This study suggests the presence of MIDA complex, which is composed of malnutrition, inflammation, depression and arteriosclerosis. The MIDA complex syndrome was an independent risk factor for CVD and all-cause death in chronic hemodialysis patients."
research-article	NEC348830	"Dalteparin Dosing in High-Flux Haemodialysis and Haemodiafiltration Dalteparin Dosing in High-Flux Haemodialysis and Haemodiafiltration Background: Low-molecular-weight heparins are being increasingly used as an alternative to unfractionated heparin for anticoagulation of the haemodialysis (HD) circuit. Data on dalteparin use in high-flux HD and haemodiafiltration (HDF) are limited. We examined the safety and efficacy of dalteparin in this setting to enable recommendations on the optimal dose range. Methods: This prospective study was conducted in a single dialysis unit. Subjects who had been receiving dalteparin for at least 10 HD sessions were studied. Anti-Xa activity was measured for all subjects at the start of the HD session, at 60 min into HD and at the end of dialysis. Results: 55 subjects were studied. None had detectable anti-Xa activity at the start of the session. Using adequacy criteria based on target anti-Xa activity &gt;0.4 IU/ml at 1 h and &lt;0.4 IU/ml at the end of dialysis, 39 (71%) patients had adequate anticoagulation, 12 (22%) patients were under-anticoagulated and 4 (7%) were over-anticoagulated. The mean dose in the adequately anticoagulated group was 60.7 ± 11.7 IU/kg, in the under-anticoagulated group 39.3 ± 9.6 IU/kg and in the over-anticoagulated group 70.1 ± 14.6 IU/kg. The optimal dose of dalteparin appears to be 60 ± 10 IU/kg, which facilitates the achievement of the target anti-Xa activity in the range of 0.4-0.75 IU/ml at 1 h and &lt;0.4 IU/ml at the session end. Conclusion: Dalteparin is a safe and effective anticoagulant for patients on high-flux HD and HDF. The optimal dose appears to be 60 ± 10 IU/kg. The desirable target range of anti-Xa activity is 0.4-0.75 at 1 h and &lt;0.4 IU/ml at the session end."
research-article	NEC348835	"Socio-Economic Disparities in the Distribution of Cardiovascular Risk in Chronic Kidney Disease Stage 3 Socio-Economic Disparities in the Distribution of Cardiovascular Risk in Chronic Kidney Disease Stage 3 Background/Aims: For most people with chronic kidney disease (CKD), cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk exceeds risk of progression to end-stage renal disease. This study aimed to investigate the distribution of cardiovascular risk in CKD stage 3 by socio-economic status (SES; measured by area deprivation and educational attainment) and CKD diagnosis awareness. Methods: 1,741 patients with CKD 3 recruited from primary-care practices for the Renal Risk in Derby Study were assessed for cardiovascular risk factors. Ten-year cardiovascular risk, estimated using Framingham and QRISK2 risk prediction algorithms in eligible subgroups, was dichotomised at ≥20% (a threshold for clinical action in the UK), and compared by SES and awareness of CKD diagnosis using logistic regression. Results: Patients with lower SES had greater adjusted odd ratios (OR) of smoking, diabetes and previous CVD, but not of central obesity, hypertension, elevated total/high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol ratio or albuminuria. Using Framingham scoring (n = 672), the adjusted OR of having ≥20% 10-year risk were 2.87 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.41-5.84] in the lowest deprivation quintile compared to the highest, 2.52 (95% CI: 1.52-4.00) in those without qualifications compared to those with qualifications, and 1.54 (95% CI: 1.09-2.17) in those unaware of their CKD diagnosis compared to those aware of it. QRISK2 scoring (n = 1,071) showed a similar association with education status [OR: 2.45 (95% CI: 1.63-3.67)] and lack of CKD awareness [OR: 1.46 (95% CI: 1.05-2.03)], but not with deprivation [OR: 1.12 (95% CI: 0.55-2.27)]. Conclusion: An elevated CVD risk is associated with a lower education status and lack of awareness of CKD diagnosis in people with CKD 3."
research-article	NEC349943	"Uraemic Pruritus: Relief of Itching by Gabapentin and Pregabalin Uraemic Pruritus: Relief of Itching by Gabapentin and Pregabalin Background: Pruritus (skin irritation or itching) is common in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) stages 4 and 5. It is associated with disrupted sleep, reduced quality of life, depression and increased mortality. A video of a patient describing the symptoms is at vimeo.com/49458473. Methods: We used gabapentin or pregabalin in 71 consecutive patients, 82% male. 25 had CKD stage 4 or 5, median eGFR = 17, range 9-30; 40 were on haemodialysis; 6 on peritoneal dialysis. Median itch severity score out of 10 = 8, range 6-10; median duration of itching = 6 months, range 0.5-240. Serum calcium ≤2.60 mmol/l (≤10.4 mg/dl) in 87% patients, phosphate ≤1.8 mmol/l (≤5.6 mg/dl) in 75%. 63% had used antihistamines and not gained relief. Starting dose of gabapentin 100 mg after dialysis or daily. Patients intolerant of gabapentin were offered pregabalin, starting dose 25 mg after dialysis or daily. Results: Gabapentin relieved itching in 47 patients (66%). A video of a patient describing the effect is at vimeo.com/49455976. 26 patients (37%) suffered side effects from gabapentin. Of 21 patients who stopped gabapentin due to side effects, 16 started pregabalin. Pregabalin relieved itching in 13 patients (81%). In total, gabapentin or pregabalin relieved itching in 60 patients (85%), median follow-up 2 months (range 1-8 months). Median itch severity out of 10 reduced from 8 to 1. Conclusions: Gabapentin or pregabalin relieved itching in 85% of 71 consecutively treated CKD patients. Patients should be advised about side effects and the drug initiated at a low dose. Patients intolerant of gabapentin may tolerate pregabalin."
systematic-review	NED279334	The Incidence of Myasthenia Gravis: A Systematic Literature Review The Incidence of Myasthenia Gravis: A Systematic Literature Review Background: A systematic review of literature published between 1980 and 2007, on the incidence of myasthenia gravis, was undertaken. Methods: All relevant papers found through searches of Medline, Embase and Science Direct were critically appraised and an assessment was made of the reliability of the reported incidence data. Results: Thirty-one studies were included in the review, the majority of which investigated populations in Europe. The incidence rates reported were between 3.0 and 30.0/1,000,000/year. However, it is thought that the rates at the upper end of this range, reported by the prospective studies, provided the most accurate estimates. Overall, incidence rates have increased over time owing to a greater awareness of the disease and improved methods of diagnosis. Conclusions: The most accurate estimate of incidence of myasthenia gravis was around 30/ 1,000,000/year. The incidence in children and adolescents aged 0–19 years was found to be between 1.0 and 5.0/ 1,000,000/year. The rates presented in this review are likely to be an underestimate of the true incidence rates, as mild cases will have been missed and cases in the elderly will have been misdiagnosed.
systematic-review	NED279335	Incidence of Spinal Cord Injury Worldwide: A Systematic Review Incidence of Spinal Cord Injury Worldwide: A Systematic Review Background: Incidence studies of spinal cord injury (SCI) are important for health-care planning and epidemiological research. This review gives a quantitative update on SCI epidemiology worldwide through a statistical evaluation of incidence rates. Methods: A systematic review was conducted. For each study, the crude rate ratio was calculated and, when possible, age- and gender-adjusted incidence rate ratios with 95% CI were determined by direct adjustment or using Poisson regression. Results: Thirteen studies were included. Annual crude incidence rates in traumatic SCI varied from 12.1 per million in The Netherlands to 57.8 per million in Portugal. Compared to the Portuguese reference study, incidence rates showed a 3-fold variation, with the highest rates in Canada and Portugal. Most traumatic SCI studies showed a bimodal age distribution. The first peak was found in young adults between 15 and 29 years and a second peak in older adults (mostly ≧65 years). Motor vehicle accidents and falls were the most prevalent causes of injury accounting for nearly equal percentages. In contrast, another age pattern in non-traumatic SCI reflected steadily increasing incidence with advancing age. Conclusions: The results show significant variation in SCI incidence with changing epidemiological patterns. A trend towards increased incidence in the elderly was observed, likely due to falls and non-traumatic injury.
review-article	NED302844	"Analyses of Diagnostic Patterns at 30 Alzheimer’s Disease Centers in the US Analyses of Diagnostic Patterns at 30 Alzheimer’s Disease Centers in the US Background: The US Alzheimer’s Disease Centers (ADCs) (n = 30) recently created a uniform data set. We sought to determine which variables were most important in making a diagnosis, and how these differed across ADCs. Methods: A cross-sectional analysis of first visits to ADCs via polytomous logistic regression. We analyzed subjects with complete data (n = 7,555, 89%), and also used multiple imputation to infer missing data. Results: There were 8,495 subjects; 50, 26, and 24% were diagnosed as normal, having mild cognitive impairment (MCI), or mild Alzheimer’s disease [Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) score &lt;1], respectively. The model using 7,555 subjects was 86% accurate in predicting diagnosis. Important predictors were physician-reported decline and the CDR sum of boxes, followed by 4 cognitive tests (Mini Mental State Examination, Category Fluency Tests, Logical Memory Test, Boston Naming Test). Multiple imputation revealed Trail Making Test B to be additionally important. Consensus versus single-clinician diagnoses were 2–3 times more likely to result in MCI than normal diagnoses. Excluding clinical judgment variables, functional assessment and psychiatric symptoms were important additional predictors; model accuracy remained high (78%). There were significant differences between centers in the use of different cognitive tests in making diagnoses. Conclusions: We recommend creating a hypothetic data set to use across ADCs to improve diagnostic consistency, and a survey on the use of raw or adjusted cognitive test scores by different ADCs."
systematic-review	NED321712	"A Systematic Review of the Incidence and Prevalence of Long-Term Neurological Conditions in the UK A Systematic Review of the Incidence and Prevalence of Long-Term Neurological Conditions in the UK Background: Updated, robust estimates of the incidence and prevalence of rare long-term neurological conditions in the UK are not available. Global estimates may be misrepresentative as disease aetiology may vary by location. Objectives: To systematically review the incidence and prevalence of long-term neurological conditions in the UK since 1988. Search Strategy: Medline (January 1988 to January 2009), Embase (January 1988 to January 2009), CINAHL (January 1988 to January 2009) and Cochrane CENTRAL databases. Selection Criteria: UK population-based incidence/prevalence studies of long-term neurological conditions since 1988. Exclusion criteria included inappropriate diagnoses and incomprehensive case ascertainment. Data Collection and Analysis: Articles were included based on the selection criteria. Data were extracted from articles with ranges of incidence and prevalence reported. Main Results: Eight studies met the criteria (3 on motor neurone disease; 4 on Huntington’s disease; 1 on progressive supranuclear palsy). The incidence of motor neurone disease ranged from 1.06 to 2.4/100,000 person-years. The prevalence ranged from 4.02 to 4.91/100,000. The prevalence of Huntington’s disease ranged from 4.0 to 9.94/100,000. The prevalence of progressive supranuclear palsy ranged from 3.1 to 6.5/100,000. Conclusions: The review updates the incidence/prevalence of long-term neurological conditions. Future epidemiological studies must incorporate comprehensive case ascertainment methods and strict diagnostic criteria."
systematic-review	NED321930	Can Mortality Data Be Used to Estimate Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Incidence? Can Mortality Data Be Used to Estimate Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Incidence? Background: Because studies of the incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have uncertain feasibility and high costs, mortality rates are often used to provide an estimate. We performed a systematic review of the literature concerning mortality related to ALS. We aimed to use well-known criteria of good epidemiological practice to assess the methodological quality of the studies. Methods: A Medline and ScienceDirect literature search was performed to identify studies on ALS mortality published from 1971 to 2009. The literature was examined following 6 criteria. Results: Of the 29 studies examined, almost all presented a clear definition of the population at risk, but 55% of the papers did not report on the accuracy of death certificates, and the use of both ‘underlying’ and ‘contributory’ causes of death was identified in only 41% of cases. When comparing ALS mortality data between calendar dates, the codes from the International Classification of Diseases were consistent overall, except in 3 studies. A majority of articles that compared mortality patterns between geographical regions or ethnic groups discussed the key issues of comparability of health care and equality of access. Overall, among the 29 ALS mortality studies, only 3 complied with all the criteria. In 2 of them, the mortality rates were highly consistent with available incidence data. Conclusion: Only few studies on mortality data followed a high-quality methodology. When studies complied with the criteria, they showed good accuracy with regard to incidence rates. The criteria used in this study could also be used to guide future studies based on mortality data.
systematic-review	NED323953	Stress as a Risk Factor for Multiple Sclerosis Onset or Relapse: A Systematic Review Stress as a Risk Factor for Multiple Sclerosis Onset or Relapse: A Systematic Review Background: Stress has been considered a triggering factor for multiple sclerosis (MS) since the description of the disease by Jean-Martin Charcot. Until our times, many published studies have supported that both MS onset and relapse could be predisposed by psychological stress. This review aims to synthesize existing knowledge of the relationship between psychological stress and MS onset and relapse, focusing mainly on the quality of observational studies. Methods: We hand-searched MEDLINE with the terms ‘stress and multiple sclerosis’, using English language restrictions, from January 1980 to November 2010. We included only observational longitudinal studies. The Newcastle-Ottawa scale proposed by the Cochrane Collaboration was used for assessing the quality of the observational studies. Results: Seventeen publications were analyzed, 5 for MS onset (1 cohort and 4 case-control studies) and 12 for MS relapse (9 cohort and 3 case-control studies). We found a marked heterogeneity in stress measurement that mostly targeted the environmental approach to stress. Only 2 publications used radiological criteria for MS relapse. Quality issues were identified mainly for comparability, meaning that studies failed to control adequately for various triggering and psychosocial factors in the stress-MS relationship. Also, selection and blinding problems were identified in most case-control studies. All studies, with only 2 exceptions, resulted in favor of the stress-MS relationship, but due to marked stress measurement heterogeneity, no secure conclusions could be drawn. Conclusions: Future studies should incorporate a multidisciplinary approach to stress measurement and radiological criteria for MS. We further encourage researchers to test the effect of early life stress and stress management techniques on the clinical course of the disease.
systematic-review	NED327497	The Influence of Design and Definition on the Proportion of General Epilepsy Cohorts with Remission and Intractability The Influence of Design and Definition on the Proportion of General Epilepsy Cohorts with Remission and Intractability Remission while on anti-epileptic drug (AED) therapy and remission off AED are the only prognostic criteria defined by the International League against Epilepsy (ILAE), defining remission as 5 seizure-free years. Prognosis studies in epilepsy have investigated other prognostic categories using different designs and definitions. This systematic review explores factors that explain discrepancies in the proportion of patients reported with commonly studied prognostic categories in general epilepsy cohorts. Thirty publications (reporting 37 studies) were included. The outcome categories were classified as immediate remission (5 studies), remission off medication (7 studies), remission on or off medication (15 studies), intractability (9 studies) and no remission after relapse (1 study). The findings show the importance of qualifying estimates specifically by how they were defined in each study, study design, setting and patient population as these have implications for patient management and counselling. The ILAE should define the outcome measures and terminology to which researchers should be required to adhere in subsequent updates of their guidelines on research related to remission and intractability.
systematic-review	NED334744	"Methodology of the Global and Regional Burden of Stroke Study Methodology of the Global and Regional Burden of Stroke Study Background: Setting priorities for the prevention of stroke requires an empirical understanding of the pattern of disease burden and exposure to major risk factors. In this manuscript we aim to report the methodology of a systematic review of the epidemiological literature on stroke and how this information will be synthesized to produce updated estimates of the global burden of stroke. Methods: We will use multi-state models implemented in the software program DisMod III to estimate age-specific prevalence, incidence, and early case-fatality (defined as either 28-day, 30-day or 1-month case fatality) for stroke by the 21 global burden of disease (GBD) regions as well as by gender and pathological stroke type based on information obtained from a systematic review. We conducted a two-stage search strategy in order to identify studies published between 1980 and 2011 for the GBD stroke review. Eligible studies: (a) distinguished between stroke and transient ischaemic attack (TIA); (b) distinguished between 1st ever and recurrent stroke; (c) reported on age-specific rates; (d) if reported, provided survival status within 28 days, 30 days or 1 month of onset for fatal and non-fatal events; (e) specified methods for ascertaining stroke cases, and (f) described imaging modalities to determine stroke subtypes. Details of included studies were recorded on a detailed data extraction form by trained reviewers. We will gather information on demographics, natural history and clinical outcomes (e.g. Rankin scale, Glasgow Coma Scale), after stroke which will be used to facilitate the estimation of epidemiological parameters. Reporting and methodological quality was rated. Populations were coded as urban, rural, or combined and studies classified as national, sub-national, healthcare system-based, or community level. Studies published in non-English languages were translated and coded centrally. Discussion: In international health research, there is a crucial need for accurate assessment of global health patterns. A thorough GBD reassessment of stroke will ensure that global health policy decisions are based on the most up-to-date, valid and reliable epidemiological information available."
systematic-review	NED336230	Stroke in South Asia: A Systematic Review of Epidemiologic Literature from 1980 to 2010 Stroke in South Asia: A Systematic Review of Epidemiologic Literature from 1980 to 2010 Background: Globally 15 million people have an acute stroke every year and one third of them die secondary to stroke events. Most research on stroke prevention and treatment is done in developed countries, yet more than 85% of strokes occur in developing countries. In particular, stroke remains an underrecognized cause of death and disability in South Asia. Methods: We conducted a systematic review to identify reliable and comparable epidemiological evidence on stroke in South Asia from 1980 to 2010. Publications were screened for eligibility to identify only population-based stroke studies. Results: Of the 71 studies retrieved, only 6 studies from South Asia gave us acceptable estimates of the burden of stroke. Population-based studies from South Asia have stroke prevalence in the range of 45–471 per 100,000. The age-adjusted incidence rate varied from approximately 145 per 100,000 to 262 per 100,000. Rural parts of South Asia have a lower stroke prevalence compared with urban areas. Conclusions: Our review highlights the paucity of research data in South Asia. This must be addressed in order to accurately determine the burden of stroke in South Asia, so that specific policy recommendations can be formulated to combat the stroke epidemic in this region.
systematic-review	NED339318	"Sensitivity to Biases of Case-Control Studies on Medical Procedures, Particularly Surgery and Blood Transfusion, and Risk of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease Sensitivity to Biases of Case-Control Studies on Medical Procedures, Particularly Surgery and Blood Transfusion, and Risk of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease Background: Evidence of risk of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) associated with medical procedures, including surgery and blood transfusion, is limited by susceptibility to bias in epidemiological studies. Methods: Sensitivity to bias was explored using a central-birth-cohort model using data from 18 case-control studies obtained after a review of 494 reports on medical procedures and risk of CJD, systematic for the period January 1, 1989 to December 31, 2011. Results: The validity of the findings in these studies may have been undermined by: recall; control selection; exposure assessment in life-time periods of different duration, out of time-at-risk of effect, or asymmetry in case/control data; and confounding by concomitant blood transfusion at the time of surgery. For sporadic CJD (sCJD), a history of surgery or blood transfusion was associated with risk in some, but not all, recent studies at a ≥10 year lag time, when controls were longitudinally sampled. Space-time aggregation of surgical events was not seen. Surgery at early clinical onset might be overrepresented among cases. Neither surgical history nor blood transfusion unlabelled for donor status, dental treatments or endoscopic examinations were linked to variant CJD (vCJD). Conclusions: These results indicate the need for further research. Common challenges within these studies include access to and content of past medical/dental treatment records for diseases with long incubation periods."
systematic-review	NED342779	Incidence and Prevalence of Multiple Sclerosis in the Americas: A Systematic Review Incidence and Prevalence of Multiple Sclerosis in the Americas: A Systematic Review Background: The incidence and prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS) varies considerably around the world. No previous study has performed a comprehensive review examining the incidence and prevalence of MS across the Americas. The purpose of this study was to systematically review and assess the quality of studies estimating the incidence and/or prevalence of MS in North, Central and South American regions. Methods: A comprehensive literature search was performed using MEDLINE and EMBASE from January 1985 to January 2011. Search terms included ‘multiple sclerosis’, ‘incidence’, ‘prevalence’ and ‘epidemiology’. Only full-text articles published in English or French were included. Study quality was assessed using an assessment tool based on recognized guidelines and designed specifically for this study. Results: A total of 3,925 studies were initially identified, with 31 meeting the inclusion criteria. The majority of studies examined North American regions (n = 25). Heterogeneity was high among all studies, even when stratified by country. Only half of the studies reported standardized rates, making comparisons difficult. Quality scores ranged from 3/8 to 8/8. Conclusion: This review highlights the gaps that still exist in the epidemiological knowledge of MS in the Americas, and the inconsistencies in methodologies and quality among the published studies. There is a need for future studies of MS prevalence and incidence to include uniform case definitions, employ comparable methods of ascertainment, report standardized results, and be performed on a national level. Other factors such as sex distribution, ethnic make-up and population lifestyle habits should also be considered.
systematic-review	NED343667	The Prevalence, Impact and Economic Implications of Atrial Fibrillation in Stroke: What Progress Has Been Made? The Prevalence, Impact and Economic Implications of Atrial Fibrillation in Stroke: What Progress Has Been Made? Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a major risk factor for stroke, especially in the elderly. Increased life expectancies mean that AF-related stroke is a growing global public health concern. Improvements in the detection, treatment and prevention of the consequences of AF have occurred in recent years. However, the extent to which these improvements have impacted on the prevalence of AF, the risk of AF-related stroke and subsequent economic costs are unknown. This review provides a contemporary assessment of the epidemiological data on AF-related stroke aimed at assessing the effectiveness of primary prevention strategies and associated economic implications with reductions in stroke incidence. A systematic review of the literature was performed. Appropriately designed studies were identified and retrieved. Evidence on changes in the prevalence of AF, the risk of stroke associated with AF and the excess cost of AF-related stroke over the last 30 years was summarised. The results provide evidence that the age-adjusted prevalence of AF and the relative risk of stroke associated with AF has remained relatively constant. Unless action is taken to improve detection of AF and reduce its consequences, a considerable increase in the social and economic burden associated with AF-related stroke is likely.
systematic-review	NED345122	A Systematic Review of Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials Examining the Clinical Efficacy of Vitamin D in Multiple Sclerosis A Systematic Review of Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials Examining the Clinical Efficacy of Vitamin D in Multiple Sclerosis Background: An association between multiple sclerosis (MS) prevalence as well as MS mortality and vitamin D nutrition has led to the hypothesis that high levels of vitamin D could be beneficial for MS. The purpose of this systematic review is to establish whether there is evidence for or against vitamin D in the treatment of MS. Methods: Systematic literature searches were performed to locate randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials measuring the clinical effect of vitamin D on MS in human participants. Data were extracted in a standardized manner, and methodological quality was assessed by the Jadad score. Results: Five trials were located that met the selection criteria. Of the 5 trials, 4 showed no effect of vitamin D on any outcome, and 1 showed a significant effect, namely by a reduction in the number of T1 enhancing lesions on brain magnetic resonance imaging. Three studies commented on adverse effects of vitamin D, with gastrointestinal adverse effects being the most frequently reported. The literature is limited by small study sizes (ranging from 23 to 68 patients), heterogeneity of dosing, form of vitamin D tested (vitamin D3 in 4 trials and vitamin D2 in 1) and clinical outcome measures. Therefore, a meta-analysis was not performed. Conclusions: The evidence for vitamin D as a treatment for MS is inconclusive. Larger studies are warranted to assess the effect of vitamin D on clinical outcomes in patients with MS. We further encourage researchers to also test the effect of vitamin D on the health-related quality of life experienced by patients and their families.
research-article	NED345138	Association between Ozone Exposure and Onset of Stroke in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, USA, 1994-2000 Association between Ozone Exposure and Onset of Stroke in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, USA, 1994-2000 Background: Epidemiological studies have shown adverse short-term effects of air pollution on health including cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. However, air pollution-related stroke has received less attention. Methods: In this study, we performed a time-stratified case-crossover analysis to evaluate the relationships between stroke hospital admissions and O3, among patients aged 65 years and older in Allegheny County, Pa., USA, between 1994 and 2000. We also examined whether the effects of air pollutants differed across strata defined by patient demographic characteristics and ambient temperature. Results: Exposures to O3 on the current day increase the risk of total stroke hospitalization by 1.9% (95% CI: 0.01-3.8) per interquartile range increase in concentration. Furthermore, the results suggest that males were more sensitive to adverse health effects of O3 on stroke hospitalization than females. Conclusion: These results suggest that O3 has an adverse effect on stroke hospitalization. Specific patient subgroups, such as males, may be at increased risk.
research-article	NED345247	"Seasonal Variation in the Incidence of Aneurysmal Subarachnoid Hemorrhage Associated with Age and Gender: 20-Year Results from the Yamaguchi Cerebral Aneurysm Registry Seasonal Variation in the Incidence of Aneurysmal Subarachnoid Hemorrhage Associated with Age and Gender: 20-Year Results from the Yamaguchi Cerebral Aneurysm Registry Background: This study was a cerebral aneurysm registry study conducted in a region with few climatic differences. Based on data collected for over 20 years, seasonal variations and characteristics of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) due to ruptured aneurysms were analyzed. Methods: This study included 5,007 patients in the Yamaguchi Prefecture with aneurysmal SAH between 1986 and 2005. Incidence rates by month, sex, age, severity, and aneurysm site were analyzed. Results: In women, seasonal variation was observed, in particular among those aged ≥50 years. Among those aged 50-69 years, the highest incidence was in October, and the nadir was in June (peak-to-trough ratio = 1.72). At age ≥70 years, this was slightly different, with the highest incidence in December and the nadir in July (peak-to-trough ratio = 1.48). However, there was no seasonal variation in men overall; it was limited to elderly men at age ≥70 years, with the highest incidence in January and the nadir in July (peak-to-trough ratio = 2.9). Aneurysm site and severity showed no relationship with seasonal variation. Conclusion: The present study shows seasonal variations in the onset of SAH. Seasonal variations in SAH differed depending on age and sex."
research-article	NED346275	Epidemiology of Hereditary Ataxias in Spain: Hospital Discharge Registry and Population-Based Mortality Study Epidemiology of Hereditary Ataxias in Spain: Hospital Discharge Registry and Population-Based Mortality Study Background: Hereditary ataxias (HA) comprise a group of genetically heterogeneous rare diseases. As important public health problems to be monitored, this study analyses the morbimortality of HA in Spain. Methods: Data were extracted from the national death index (1981-2008), using the International Classification of Diseases (ICD) 9th revision code 334 until 1998, and 10th revision code G11 from 1999 onwards. ICD-9 codes were then selected from the national discharge dataset (1998-2007). Age-adjusted morbidity and mortality rates were obtained by gender and 5-year period. Results: Of the 610 HA deaths from 1981 to 2008, 277 corresponded to Friedreich's ataxia (45.4%) and 333 (54.6%) to other and unspecified ataxias (non-Friedreich group). Both groups showed an increase in mortality trend, which was more pronounced in males from 1985-1989 to 1990-1994. Geographical distribution of mortality revealed higher risk for males, mainly in the north of Spain. A total of 5,341 HA hospitalisations were identified from 1998 to 2007. The average annual age-adjusted hospitalisation rate was 1.19 per 100,000 population, with a rising trend. Conclusion: This increase in morbidity and mortality, coupled with the slight interprovincial differences, indicate that more attention should be paid to these rare diseases by public authorities and society alike.
research-article	NED346497	A Simple Score to Predict Survival with Dementia in the General Population A Simple Score to Predict Survival with Dementia in the General Population Background/Aims: This study was designed to develop a practical risk score for predicting 5-year survival after the diagnosis of dementia. Methods: Using the Paquid Study (prospective, population-based, long-term cohort study), we created a prognosis score with incident cases of dementia and validated it in another prospective, population-based, long-term cohort study, the Three City Study. -Results: Among the 3,777 subjects enrolled in the Paquid Study, 454 incident cases of dementia were included in this study. After a 5-year follow-up period, 319 (70.3%) were deceased. The score was constructed from three independent prognostic variables (gender, age at diagnosis and number of ADL restricted). The discriminant ability of the score was good with a c index of 0.754. Sensitivity was 64.7% and specificity 76.3%. In the validation cohort, the discriminant ability of the prognostic score with c statistics was 0.700. Sensitivity was 26.3% and specificity 95.4%. Conclusions: The prognostic factors selected in the predictive model are easily assessable, so this simple score could provide helpful information for the management of dementia, particularly to identify patients with duration of the disease greater than 5 years.
systematic-review	NED350710	"Epidemiology of Traumatic Spinal Cord Injury in Developing Countries: A Systematic Review Epidemiology of Traumatic Spinal Cord Injury in Developing Countries: A Systematic Review Background/Aims: To describe the epidemiology of spinal cord injury (SCI) in the developing world. Methods: Developing countries were selected based on the definition proposed by the International Monetary Fund. A literature search was performed in July 2012 in Medline and Embase. Further article procurement was obtained via the reference lists of the identified articles, websites, and direct contact with the authors of the identified studies. We designed search strategies using the key words: SCI, epidemiology, incidence, and prevalence. According to the inclusion criteria, 64 studies from 28 countries were included. Results: The incidence of SCI in developing countries is 25.5/million/year (95% CI: 21.7-29.4/million/year) and ranges from 2.1 to 130.7/million/year. Males comprised 82.8% (95% CI: 80.3-85.2) of all SCIs with a mean age of 32.4 years (95% CI: 29.7-35.2). The two leading causes of SCI were found to be motor vehicle crashes (41.4%; 95% CI: 35.4-47.4) and falls (34.9%; 95% CI: 26.7-43.1). Complete SCIs were found to be more common than incomplete injuries (complete SCI: 56.5%; 95% CI: 47.6-65.3; incomplete SCI: 43.0%; 95% CI: 34.1-52.0). Similarly, paraplegia was found to be more common than tetraplegia (paraplegia: 58.7%; 95% CI: 51.5-66.0; tetraplegia: 40.6%; 95% CI: 33.3-48.0). Conclusion: Through an understanding of the epidemiology of SCI in developing countries, appropriate preventative strategies and resource allocation may decrease the incidence and improve the care of these injuries."
systematic-review	NED351153	Global Epidemiology of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: A Systematic Review of the Published Literature Global Epidemiology of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: A Systematic Review of the Published Literature Background: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is relatively rare, yet the economic and social burden is substantial. Having accurate incidence and prevalence estimates would facilitate efficient allocation of healthcare resources. Objective: To provide a comprehensive and critical review of the epidemiological literature on ALS. Methods: MEDLINE and EMBASE (1995-2011) databases of population-based studies on ALS incidence and prevalence reporting quantitative data were analyzed. Data extracted included study location and time, design and data sources, case ascertainment methods and incidence and/or prevalence rates. Medians and interquartile ranges (IQRs) were calculated, and ALS case estimates were derived using 2010 population estimates. Results: In all, 37 articles met the inclusion criteria. In Europe, the median incidence rate (/100,000 population) was 2.08 (IQR 1.47-2.43), corresponding to an estimated 15,355 (10,852-17,938) cases. Median prevalence (/100,000 population) was 5.40 (IQR 4.06-7.89), or 39,863 (29,971-58,244) prevalent cases. Conclusions: Disparity in rates among ALS incidence and prevalence studies may be due to differences in study design or true variations in population demographics such as age and geography, including environmental factors and genetic predisposition. Additional large-scale studies that use standardized case ascertainment methods are needed to more accurately assess the true global burden of ALS.
systematic-review	NED356807	"Antiepileptic Drugs and Suicide: A Systematic Review of Adverse Effects Antiepileptic Drugs and Suicide: A Systematic Review of Adverse Effects Background: Since the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) report on antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and suicide risk was released (2008), several studies have been published on this controversial relationship. This systematic review (SR) gives an updated approach to this health issue. Summary: We searched 6 databases. We ultimately included 11 publications: 4 cohort studies, 1 case-crossover study, 2 community case-control studies, and 4 SRs. Overall, 1 SR described studies already included; 3 studies reported a 2- to 4-fold overall increase in risk; 1 study reported an increased risk of suicide among epilepsy patients on AEDs with high risk of depression; 1study showed a protective effect among epilepsy patients; 2 studies were conducted with patients with bipolar disorder (1 showed a protective effect, whereas the other showed a 3-fold increase in risk of suicide), and the other 3 studies reported results for single AEDs. Several biases affected the published results. Key Messages: There is no clear evidence of an association between the use of AEDs and an increased risk of suicide because of the heterogeneity in the studies at the clinical and methodological level. A future study should cover all indications for use, retrieve information from a healthcare database, and include a defined set of covariates to avoid bias."
systematic-review	NED358174	"The Increasing Prevalence of Multiple Sclerosis in New Zealand The Increasing Prevalence of Multiple Sclerosis in New Zealand Background: New Zealand (NZ) has a high prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS). Worldwide, the prevalence of MS appears to be increasing. Objectives: To review all published prevalence studies undertaken in NZ to determine whether the prevalence of MS in NZ is increasing. Methods: PubMed, Medline, Scopus, Web of Knowledge, EMBASE, AMED and CINAHL were searched to identify studies reporting the prevalence of MS in NZ. Prevalence rates from the National MS Prevalence study in 2006 were compared with earlier prevalence rates for the same regions using Poisson regression. Results: Prevalence rates reported in the earlier regional studies ranged from 23.6 to 68.5/100,000 population; in the same regions in 2006, the range was 47.6-134.2/100,000 population. Prevalence rates were significantly increased in all regions studied except for the Bay of Plenty. The increase in prevalence was seen in both sexes. The sex ratio remained constant over time. Conclusions: In studies spanning almost 40 years (1968-2006), the prevalence of MS within the same regions of NZ has significantly increased whereas the sex ratio and latitudinal gradient have remained stable."
systematic-review	NED358801	The Global Epidemiology of Hereditary Ataxia and Spastic Paraplegia: A Systematic Review of Prevalence Studies The Global Epidemiology of Hereditary Ataxia and Spastic Paraplegia: A Systematic Review of Prevalence Studies Background: Hereditary cerebellar ataxias (HCA) and hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSP) are two groups of neurodegenerative disorders that usually present with progressive gait impairment, often leading to permanent disability. Advances in genetic research in the last decades have improved their diagnosis and brought new possibilities for prevention and future treatments. Still, there is great uncertainty regarding their global epidemiology. Summary: Our objective was to assess the global distribution and prevalence of HCA and HSP by a systematic review and meta-analysis of prevalence studies. The MEDLINE, ISI Web of Science and Scopus databases were searched (1983-2013) for studies performed in well-defined populations and geographical regions. Two independent reviewers assessed the studies and extracted data and predefined methodological parameters. Overall, 22 studies were included, reporting on 14,539 patients from 16 countries. Multisource population-based studies yielded higher prevalence values than studies based primarily on hospitals or genetic centres. The prevalence range of dominant HCA was 0.0-5.6/105, with an average of 2.7/105 (1.5-4.0/105). Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3)/Machado-Joseph disease was the most common dominant ataxia, followed by SCA2 and SCA6. The autosomal recessive (AR) HCA (AR-HCA) prevalence range was 0.0-7.2/105, the average being 3.3/105 (1.8-4.9/105). Friedreich ataxia was the most frequent AR-HCA, followed by ataxia with oculomotor apraxia or ataxia-telangiectasia. The prevalence of autosomal dominant (AD) HSP (AD-HSP) ranged from 0.5 to 5.5/105 and that of AR-HSP from 0.0 to 5.3/105, with pooled averages of 1.8/105 (95% CI: 1.0-2.7/105) and 1.8/105 (95% CI: 1.0-2.6/105), respectively. The most common AD-HSP form in every population was spastic paraplegia, autosomal dominant, type 4 (SPG4), followed by SPG3A, while SPG11 was the most frequent AR-HSP, followed by SPG15. In population-based studies, the number of families without genetic diagnosis after systematic testing ranged from 33 to 92% in the AD-HCA group, and was 40-46% in the AR-HCA, 45-67% in the AD-HSP and 71-82% in the AR-HSP groups. Key Messages: Highly variable prevalence values for HCA and HSP are reported across the world. This variation reflects the different genetic make-up of the populations, but also methodological heterogeneity. Large areas of the world remain without prevalence studies. From the available data, we estimated that around 1:10,000 people are affected by HCA or HSP. In spite of advances in genetic research, most families in population-based series remain without identified genetic mutation after extensive testing.
systematic-review	NED369343	Prevalence of Muscular Dystrophies: A Systematic Literature Review Prevalence of Muscular Dystrophies: A Systematic Literature Review Background: Determining the prevalence of neuromuscular disorders for the general population is important to identify the scope of burden on society and enable comparisons with other health conditions. This systematic review aims to identify and collate the findings of studies published between 1960 and 2013 on the prevalence of all types of muscular dystrophies. Summary: Relevant articles were identified through electronic database searches and manual searches of reference lists. There were 38 articles from across 19 countries that met the inclusion criteria. The total combined prevalence for all muscular dystrophies for studies classified as having a low risk of bias ranged between 19.8 and 25.1 per 100,000 person-years. Myotonic dystrophy (0.5-18.1 per 100,000), Duchenne muscular dystrophy (1.7-4.2) and facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (3.2-4.6 per 100,000) were found to be the most common types of disorder. There was wide variation in study methodology, case ascertainment, and verification procedures and populations studied, all of which may contribute to the wide prevalence range, in addition to the likely variation in prevalence by country. Key Messages: Greater consistency in the conduct and reporting of neuroepidemiological studies is urgently needed to enable comparisons to be made between studies, countries, and over time.
meta-analysis	NED369345	Vitamin E Intake Is Not Associated with Glioma Risk: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Vitamin E Intake Is Not Associated with Glioma Risk: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Background: Epidemiological studies evaluating the association between vitamin E intake and glioma risk have produced inconsistent results. Thus, we conducted a meta-analysis to summarize the evidence from epidemiological studies of vitamin E intake with the risk of glioma. Methods: Pertinent studies were identified by a search in pubmed and web of knowledge up to August 2014. The random-effect model was used to combine the results. Publication bias was estimated using the Egger's regression asymmetry test. Results: Twelve studies including 3180 glioma cases about vitamin E intake with the risk of glioma were included in this meta-analysis. The combined relative risk (RR) of glioma associated with vitamin E intake was 0.88 (95% CI = 0.69-1.12). The association was significant neither in the case-control studies nor in the cohort studies. No publication biases were found. Conclusions: Our analysis indicated that vitamin E intake is not associated with the risk of glioma.
meta-analysis	NED369814	Association between Vitamin C Intake and Glioma Risk: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Association between Vitamin C Intake and Glioma Risk: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Background: The field of quantifying the association between the intake of vitamin C and risk of glioma still has conflicts. Thus, we performed a comprehensive meta-analysis to test the hypothesis that a high intake of vitamin C may be a protective effect on glioma risk. Methods: Pertinent studies were identified by a search in PubMed and Web of Knowledge up to June 2014. The random-effect model was used to combine study-specific results. Publication bias was estimated using Begg' funnel plot and Egger's regression asymmetry test. Results: Thirteen articles with 15 studies (2 cohort study and 13 case-control studies) involving 3,409 glioma cases about vitamin C intake and glioma risk were used in this meta-analysis. The combined relative risks (RRs) of glioma associated with vitamin C intake was 0.86 (95% CIs = 0.75-0.99). Overall, significant protective associations were also found in the American population (RRs = 0.85, 95% CIs = 0.73-0.98) and case-control studies (RRs = 0.80, 95% CIs = 0.69-0.93). No publication bias was found. Conclusions: Our analysis indicated that vitamin C intake might decrease the risk of glioma, especially among the Americans.
meta-analysis	NED371710	"Caffeine Intake from Coffee or Tea and Cognitive Disorders: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Caffeine Intake from Coffee or Tea and Cognitive Disorders: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Observational epidemiological studies such as cross-sectional, case-control, and cohort studies have reported inconsistent findings regarding the association between caffeine intake from coffee or tea and the risk of cognitive disorders such as dementia, Alzheimer's disease, cognitive impairment, and cognitive decline. Methods: We searched PubMed and EMBASE in September 2014. Three evaluators independently extracted and reviewed articles, based on predetermined selection criteria. Results: Out of 293 articles identified through the search and bibliographies of relevant articles, 20 epidemiological studies from 19 articles, which involved 31,479 participants (8,398 in six cross-sectional studies, 4,601 in five case-control studies, and 19,918 in nine cohort studies), were included in the final analysis. The pooled odds ratio (OR) or relative risk (RR) of caffeine intake from coffee or tea for cognitive disorders (dementia, Alzheimer's disease, cognitive impairment, and cognitive decline) was 0.82 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.67-1.01, I2 = 63.2%) in a random-effects meta-analysis. In the subgroup meta-analysis by caffeine sources, the summary OR or RR of coffee intake was 0.83 (95% CI, 0.70-0.98; I2 = 44.8%). However, in the subgroup meta-analysis by study design, the summary estimates (RR or OR) of coffee intake for cognitive disorders were 0.70 (95% CI, 0.50-0.98; I2 = 42.0%) for cross-sectional studies, 0.82 (95% CI, 0.55-1.24; I2 = 33.4%) for case-control studies, and 0.90 (95% CI, 0.59-1.36; I2 = 60.0%) for cohort studies. Conclusions: This meta-analysis found that caffeine intake from coffee or tea was not associated with the risk of cognitive disorders."
research-article	NED371850	"Utility of the Hand-Drawn Spiral as a Tool in Clinical-Epidemiological Research on Essential Tremor: Data from Four Essential Tremor Cohorts Utility of the Hand-Drawn Spiral as a Tool in Clinical-Epidemiological Research on Essential Tremor: Data from Four Essential Tremor Cohorts Background: In descriptive epidemiological studies, investigators must screen large numbers of individuals. How one best screens populations for essential tremor (ET); however, remains an open question. The collection of a standardized writing sample (e.g., a hand-drawn spiral) is a method with many practical advantages, yet there are virtually no data on the validity of this particular method. Methods: Four hand-drawn spirals (2 right, 2 left) were collected from 831 ET cases across four distinct study settings (population-based study, family study, environmental epidemiological study, brain repository) and, in two of these studies, from 697 controls. Spirals were rated (range 0-3) by a senior movement disorder neurologist. These 1,528 participants also underwent a detailed neurological examination, and total tremor scores (range 0-36) and ET diagnoses were assigned by the neurologist. Results: The proportion of cases with hand-drawn spiral ratings ≥1.5 in either arm ranged from 78.8-97.0%; only 4.7% of controls had spirals with tremor of that severity. The hand-drawn spiral rating was highly correlated with the total tremor score (r = 0.65-0.73, p &lt; 0.001). Conclusions: The hand-drawn spiral is a sensitive and specific method of screening for ET. Furthermore, it serves as a valid measure of overall tremor severity."
meta-analysis	NED382079	"Mortality and Longevity after a Spinal Cord Injury: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Mortality and Longevity after a Spinal Cord Injury: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Mortality and longevity studies of spinal cord injury (SCI) are essential for informing healthcare systems and policies. This review evaluates the current evidence among people with SCIs worldwide in relation to the WHO region and country income level; demographic and lesion characteristics; and in comparison with the general population. Methods: A systematic review of relevant databases for original studies. Pooled estimates were derived using random effects meta-analysis, restricted to traumatic SCI. Results: Seventy-four studies were included. In-hospital mortality varied, with pooled estimates of 24.1% (95% confidence interval (CI) 14.1-38.0), 7.6% (95% CI 6.3-9.0), 7.0% (95% CI 1.5-27.4), and 2.1% (95% CI 0.9-5.0) in the WHO regions of Africa, the Americas, Europe and Western Pacific. The combined estimate for low- and middle-income countries was nearly three times higher than for high-income countries. Pooled estimates of first-year survival were 86.5% (95% CI 75.3-93.1), 95.6% (95% CI 81.0-99.1), and 94.0% (95% CI 93.3-94.6) in the Americas, Europe and Western Pacific. Pooled estimates of standardized mortality ratios in tetraplegics were 2.53 (2.00-3.21) and 2.07 (1.47-2.92) in paraplegics. Conclusion: This study found substantial variation in mortality and longevity within the SCI population, compared to the general population, and between WHO regions and country income level. Improved standardization and quality of reporting is needed to improve inferences regarding the extent to which mortality outcomes following an SCI are related to healthcare systems, services and policies."
systematic-review	NED382130	Multiple Sclerosis Relapses: Epidemiology, Outcomes and Management. A Systematic Review Multiple Sclerosis Relapses: Epidemiology, Outcomes and Management. A Systematic Review Relapses (episodic exacerbations of neurological signs or symptoms) are a defining feature of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), the most prevalent MS phenotype. While their diagnostic value relates predominantly to the definition of clinically definite MS, their prognostic value is determined by their relatively high associated risk of incomplete remission resulting in residual disability. The mechanisms governing a relapse incidence are unknown, but numerous modifiers of relapse risk have been described, including demographic and clinical characteristics, many of which represent opportunities for improved disease management. Also relapse phenotypes have been associated with patient and disease characteristics and an individual predisposition to certain phenotypic presentations may imply individual neuroanatomical disease patterns. While immunomodulatory therapies and corticosteroids represent the mainstay of relapse prevention and acute management, respectively, their effect has only been partial and further search for more efficient relapse therapies is warranted. Other areas of research include pathophysiology and determinants of relapse incidence, recurrence and phenotypes, including the characteristics of the relapsing and non-relapsing multiple sclerosis variants and their responsiveness to therapies.
meta-analysis	NED431042	Multiple Sclerosis Epidemiology in Middle East and North Africa: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Multiple Sclerosis Epidemiology in Middle East and North Africa: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common neurological disorders and a leading cause of nontraumatic disability in young adults in many countries. Recent reports from the Middle East and North Africa have suggested a moderate to high risk of MS in these countries. Methods: A literature search was performed in August 2014 in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and IMEMR to retrieve original population-based studies on MS epidemiology in the Middle East and North African countries published between 1st January 1985 and 1st August 2014. We designed search strategies using the key words: MS, prevalence, incidence, and epidemiology. According to the inclusion criteria, 52 studies were included in this systematic review. Results: McDonald's criteria were the most widely used diagnostic criteria in the studies. Most studies were conducted in single hospital-based centers with a defined catchment area. The female/male ratio ranged from 0.8 in Oman to 4.3 in Saudi Arabia. MS prevalence ranged from 14.77/100,000 population in Kuwait (2000) to 101.4/100,000 in Turkey (2006). The overall MS prevalence in the region was 51.52/100,000. The mean age at disease onset ranged from 25.2 years in Kuwait to 32.5 years in Northeastern Iran, with an overall estimate of 28.54 years. Conclusions: Recent advances in MS registries will allow nation-wide studies and temporal comparisons between countries, provided that age- and sex-standardized estimates are available.
systematic-review	NED439568	Early Life Epidemiology of Alzheimer's Disease - A Critical Review Early Life Epidemiology of Alzheimer's Disease - A Critical Review Background: As adult brain structure is primarily established in early life, genetic and environmental exposures in infancy and childhood influence the risk for Alzheimer disease (AD). In this systematic review, we identified several early life risk factors and discussed the evidence and underlying mechanism for each. Summary: Early risk factors for AD may alter brain anatomy, causing vulnerability to AD-related dementia later in life. In the perinatal period, both genes and learning disabilities have been associated with the development of distinct AD phenotypes. During early childhood, education and intellect, as well as body growth, may predispose to AD through alterations in cognitive and brain reserve, though the specific mediators of neural injury are disputed. Childhood socioeconomic status (SES) may predispose to AD by influencing adult SES and cognition. Association of these risk factors with underlying AD pathology (rather than just clinical diagnosis) has not been sufficiently examined. Key Messages: Factors that impede or alter brain growth during early life could render certain brain regions or networks selectively vulnerable to the onset, accumulation or spread of AD-related pathology during later life. Careful life-course epidemiology could provide clues as to why the brain systematically degenerates during AD.
meta-analysis	NED442418	"Sleep Duration in Relation to Cognitive Function among Older Adults: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies Sleep Duration in Relation to Cognitive Function among Older Adults: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies Context: Increasing evidence suggests that circadian and sleep parameters influence cognitive function with aging. Objective: To evaluate observational studies of sleep duration and cognition in older adults. Data Sources: A systematic review of OVID Medline and PsycINFO through September 2015, and review of bibliographies from studies identified. Study Selection: English-language articles reporting observational studies of sleep duration and cognitive function in older populations. Data Extraction: Data extraction by 2 authors using predefined categories of desired information. Results: Thirty-two studies met our inclusion criteria, with nearly two-thirds published in the past 4 years. One-third of studies indicated that extreme sleep durations were associated with worse cognition in older adults. More studies favored an association with long vs. short sleep durations (35 vs. 26% of studies, respectively). Four studies found that greater changes in sleep duration over time were related to lower cognition. Study design and analytic methods were very heterogeneous across studies; therefore, meta-analysis was not undertaken. Limitations: We reviewed English-language manuscripts only, with a qualitative summary of studies identified. Conclusions and Implications of Key Findings: Observational studies of sleep duration and cognitive function in older adults have produced mixed results, with more studies suggesting that long (rather than short) sleep durations are related to worse cognition. Studies more consistently indicate that greater changes in sleep duration are associated with poor cognition. Future studies should be prospectively designed, with objective sleep assessment and longer follow-up periods; intervention studies are also needed to identify strategies for promoting cognitive health with aging."
meta-analysis	NED443146	"Environmental Risk Factors and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: An Umbrella Review and Critical Assessment of Current Evidence from Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses of Observational Studies Environmental Risk Factors and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: An Umbrella Review and Critical Assessment of Current Evidence from Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses of Observational Studies Background: The pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) involves both environmental and genetic factors. Our study aimed at summarising the environmental risk factors for ALS, assessing the evidence for diverse biases, and pinpointing risk factors with high epidemiological credibility. Methods: We searched PubMed from inception to August 20, 2015, to identify systematic reviews and meta-analyses of observational studies examining associations between environmental factors and ALS. For each meta-analysis, we estimated the summary effect size by the use of random-effects and fixed-effects models, the 95% CI, the 95% prediction interval (PI), and the between-study heterogeneity. We assessed the evidence of small-study effects and excess significance bias. Results: Sixteen unique meta-analyses of different risk factors and ALS were considered. Of them, 5 were statistically significant at p &lt; 0.001 under the random-effects model. Only one factor presented robust evidence for a convincing association. This association pertained to chronic occupational exposure to lead (random-effects OR 1.81, 95% CI 1.39-2.35). Conclusions: A small number of published meta-analyses on environmental factors and risk of ALS was identified, a phenomenon that could be attributed to the challenges in studying a rare neurological disease. More observational studies with adequate sample size and study design are needed to clarify the environmental component of ALS pathogenesis."
systematic-review	NED443706	"Epidemiologic Study of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease: A Systematic Review Epidemiologic Study of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease: A Systematic Review Background: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is the most common inherited neuropathy. CMT is classified into 2 main subgroups: CMT type 1 (CMT1; demyelinating form) and CMT type 2 (CMT2; axonal form). The objectives of this study were to systematically review and assess the quality of studies reporting the incidence and/or prevalence of CMT worldwide. Summary: A total of 802 studies were initially identified, with only 12 meeting the inclusion criteria. CMT prevalence was reported in 10 studies and ranged from 9.7/100,000 in Serbia to 82.3/100,000 in Norway. The frequency of the main subtypes varied from 37.6 to 84% for CMT1 and from 12 to 35.9% for CMT2; the country with the lowest prevalence of CMT1 was Norway, and the country with the highest prevalence of CMT1 was Iceland; on the other hand, CMT2 was least prevalent in the United Kingdom and most prevalent in Norway. Key Messages: This review reveals the gaps that still exist in the epidemiological knowledge of CMT around the world. Published studies are of varying quality and utilise different methodologies, thus precluding a robust conclusion. Additional research focusing on epidemiological features of CMT in different nations and different ethnic groups is needed."
systematic-review	NED443738	The Prevalence of Huntington's Disease The Prevalence of Huntington's Disease Background: Reviews of the epidemiology of Huntington's disease (HD) suggest that its worldwide prevalence varies widely. This review was undertaken to confirm these observations, to assess the extent to which differences in case-ascertainment and/or diagnosis might be responsible, and to investigate whether the prevalence pattern has changed over the past 50 years. Methods: Eighty two relevant studies were identified from Medline and Embase, previous reviews, scrutiny of references from included and excluded studies and enquiry among those interested in the field. Results: The lowest rates were among the Asians and the highest among the Caucasians. The differences are not fully explained by varying approaches to case-ascertainment or diagnosis. There was evidence of an increasing prevalence of between 15 and 20% per decade in studies from Australia, North America and Western Europe. Conclusions: The prevalence of HD varies more than tenfold between different geographical regions. This variation can in part be attributed to differences in case-ascertainment and/or diagnostic criteria, but there is consistent evidence of a lower incidence in Asian populations. There is also evidence that in Australia, North America and in Western Europe (including the United Kingdom), prevalence has increased over the past 50 plus years.
systematic-review	NED444019	Multiple Sclerosis Epidemiology in East Asia, South East Asia and South Asia: A Systematic Review Multiple Sclerosis Epidemiology in East Asia, South East Asia and South Asia: A Systematic Review Background: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common chronic immune-mediated diseases of the human central nervous system and an important cause of non-traumatic neurologic disability among young population in several countries. Recent reports from East Asia, South East Asia and South Asia have proposed a low to moderate prevalence of MS in these countries. Methods: A literature review search was carried out in December 2014 in Medline, Embase, Scopus and Cochrane library to recover original population-based studies on MS epidemiology in East Asia, South East Asia and South Asia countries published between January 1, 1950 and December 30, 2014. We intended search strategies using the key words: multiple sclerosis, prevalence, incidence and epidemiology. Based on our inclusion criteria, 68 epidemiologic studies were included in this systematic review. Results: The most extensively used diagnostic criteria in the studies were McDonald's criteria. Most studies were performed in a multi-center hospital setting. The female to male ratio varied and ranged from 0.7 in India to 9.0 in China. The mean age at disease onset ranged from the lowest age of 25.3 in Iran to the highest age of 46.4 in China. MS prevalence ranged from 0.77 in 100,000 populations in Hong Kong (1999) to 85.80 in 100,000 in Iran (2013). Conclusions: Advances in MS registries around the globe allow nationwide population-based studies and will allow worldly comparisons between the prevalence and incidence in different regions that are provided to monitor estimation.
meta-analysis	NED444324	"Soy Consumption with Risk of Coronary Heart Disease and Stroke: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Soy Consumption with Risk of Coronary Heart Disease and Stroke: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: The association of soy product consumption with the relative risk of cardiovascular disease remains controversial. This meta-analysis aimed at investigating whether an association exists between soy consumption and the risk of stroke and coronary heart disease (CHD) in observational studies. Methods: A systematic search of the PubMed and EMBASE databases was performed for case-control and cohort studies that assessed soy consumption and the risk of stroke and CHD. Summary relative risks (SRRs) and 95% CIs were combined by using a random-effects model. Results: Of a total of 1,266 abstracts, 5 prospective cohort and 6 case-control studies met our inclusion criteria, and comprised 4,954 stroke and 7,616 CHD events. Based on the high vs. low analyses, combining cohort studies showed no association between soy intake and risk of stroke (SRR 0.92; 95% CI 0.70-1.10; Pheterogeneity = 0.236; I2 = 29.4%) or CHD (SRR 0.97; 95% CI 0.74-1.27; Pheterogeneity = 0.020; I2 = 62.7%), although a significantly inverse association between soy intake and the risk of stroke (SRR 0.54; 95% CI 0.34-0.87; Pheterogeneity = 0.001; I2 = 79.3%) and CHD (SRR 0.66; 95% CI 0.56-0.77; Pheterogeneity = 0.421; I2 = 0) was observed in case-control studies. No association between soy isoflavone intake and the risk of stroke and CHD was identified. Conclusion: There was limited evidence to indicate that soy consumption was inversely associated with the risk of stroke and CHD, although further studies, with prospective designs that use validated questionnaires and control for important confounders, are warranted."
meta-analysis	NED445751	"The Incidence of Parkinson's Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Incidence of Parkinson's Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder. Epidemiological studies on the incidence of PD are important to better understand the risk factors for PD and determine the condition's natural history. Objective: This systematic review and meta-analysis examine the incidence of PD and its variation by age and gender. Methods: We searched MEDLINE and EMBASE for epidemiologic studies of PD from 2001 to 2014, as a previously published systematic review included studies published until 2001. Data were analyzed separately for age group and gender, and meta-regression was used to determine whether a significant difference was present between groups. Results: Twenty-seven studies were included in the analysis. Meta-analysis of international studies showed rising incidence with age in both men and women. Significant heterogeneity was observed in the 80+ group, which may be explained by methodological differences between studies. While males had a higher incidence of PD in all age groups, this difference was only statistically significant for those in the age range 60-69 and 70-79 (p &lt; 0.05). Conclusion: PD incidence generally increases with age, although it may stabilize in those who are 80+."
meta-analysis	NED450854	"Excess Body Weight during Childhood and Adolescence Is Associated with the Risk of Multiple Sclerosis: A Meta-Analysis Excess Body Weight during Childhood and Adolescence Is Associated with the Risk of Multiple Sclerosis: A Meta-Analysis Background and Aim: Several epidemiological studies have reported the association between obesity and multiple sclerosis (MS). Methods: A literature search of the observational studies, published as original articles in English before December 2015, was performed using electronic databases. Results: Five observational studies were included, of which 3 were case-control studies and 2 were cohort studies. The pooled relative risk (RR) for overweight and obesity during childhood and adolescence compared with normal weight (body mass index = 18.5-24.9 kg/m2) was 1.44 (95% CI 1.22-1.70) and 2.01 (95% CI 1.63-2.48), respectively. In subgroup analyses, we found that excess body weight during childhood and adolescence increased the risk of MS in the female group (overweight: pooled RR = 1.62, 95% CI 1.35-1.94; obesity: pooled RR = 2.25, 95% CI 1.77-2.85), but not in the male group (overweight: pooled RR = 1.19, 95% CI 0.91-1.55; obesity: pooled RR = 1.22, 95% CI 0.79-1.90). Conclusions: Excess body weight during childhood and adolescence was associated with an increased risk of MS; severe obesity demonstrated a stronger risk. A statistically significant association was found in the female group, but not in the male group."
meta-analysis	NED450855	"Gene-Environment Interaction in Parkinson's Disease: Coffee, ADORA2A, and CYP1A2 Gene-Environment Interaction in Parkinson's Disease: Coffee, ADORA2A, and CYP1A2 Background and Purpose: Drinking caffeinated coffee has been reported to provide protection against Parkinson's disease (PD). Caffeine is an adenosine A2A receptor (encoded by the gene ADORA2A) antagonist that increases dopaminergic neurotransmission and Cytochrome P450 1A2 (gene: CYP1A2) metabolizes caffeine; thus, gene polymorphisms in ADORA2A and CYP1A2 may influence the effect coffee consumption has on PD risk. Methods: In a population-based case-control study (PASIDA) in Denmark (1,556 PD patients and 1,606 birth year- and gender-matched controls), we assessed interactions between lifetime coffee consumption and 3 polymorphisms in ADORA2A and CYP1A2 for all subjects, and incident and prevalent PD cases separately using logistic regression models. We also conducted a meta-analysis combining our results with those from previous studies. Results: We estimated statistically significant interactions for ADORA2A rs5760423 and heavy vs. light coffee consumption in incident (OR interaction = 0.66 [95% CI 0.46-0.94], p = 0.02) but not prevalent PD. We did not observe interactions for CYP1A2 rs762551 and rs2472304 in incident or prevalent PD. In meta-analyses, PD associations with daily coffee consumption were strongest among carriers of variant alleles in both ADORA2A and CYP1A2. Conclusion: We corroborated results from a previous report that described interactions between ADORA2A and CYP1A2 polymorphisms and coffee consumption. Our results also suggest that survivor bias may affect results of studies that enroll prevalent PD cases."
meta-analysis	NED454737	Longer Duration of Sleep and Risk of Cognitive Decline: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Longer Duration of Sleep and Risk of Cognitive Decline: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Previous observational epidemiological studies have reported inconsistent findings about the association between longer durations of sleep and the risk of cognitive impairment and dementia. To investigate the association between longer durations of sleep and the risk of cognitive decline, we performed a meta-analysis of observational studies. Methods: We searched PubMed, EMBASE, and the bibliographies of relevant articles to retrieve additional studies in July 2015. A total of 53,942 participants (mean age 66.9 years) were included in the final analysis. Three evaluators independently reviewed and selected articles, based on pre-determined selection criteria. Results: Among a total of 695 articles, 10 observational epidemiological studies with 3 case-control studies and 7 cohort studies were included in the final analysis. Compared to the average sleep duration, the odds ratio or relative risk of the longest sleep duration was 1.42 (95% CI 1.27-1.59) for cognitive decline in the fixed-effect meta-analysis, 1.38 for cognitive impairment (95% CI 1.23-1.56), and 1.42 for dementia (95% CI 1.15-1.77). Subgroup meta-analyses by various factors such as study design, type of cognitive decline, gender, region, age, and methodological quality of study showed consistent findings. Conclusion: The current meta-analysis found that longer duration of sleep is associated with an increased risk of cognitive decline.
meta-analysis	NED454881	"Benzodiazepine Use and Risk of Dementia in the Elderly Population: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Benzodiazepine Use and Risk of Dementia in the Elderly Population: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Benzodiazepines are a widely used medication in developed countries, particularly among elderly patients. However, benzodiazepines are known to affect memory and cognition and might thus enhance the risk of dementia. The objective of this review is to synthesize evidence from observational studies that evaluated the association between benzodiazepines use and dementia risk. Summary: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled observational studies to evaluate the risk of benzodiazepines use on dementia outcome. All control observational studies that compared dementia outcome in patients with benzodiazepine use with a control group were included. We calculated pooled ORs using a random-effects model. Ten studies (of 3,696 studies identified) were included in the systematic review, of which 8 studies were included in random-effects meta-analysis and sensitivity analyses. Odds of dementia were 78% higher in those who used benzodiazepines compared with those who did not use benzodiazepines (OR 1.78; 95% CI 1.33-2.38). In subgroup analysis, the higher association was still found in the studies from Asia (OR 2.40; 95% CI 1.66-3.47) whereas a moderate association was observed in the studies from North America and Europe (OR 1.49; 95% CI 1.34-1.65 and OR 1.43; 95% CI 1.16-1.75). Also, diabetics, hypertension, cardiac disease, and statin drugs were associated with increased risk of dementia but negative association was observed in the case of body mass index. There was significant statistical and clinical heterogeneity among studies for the main analysis and most of the sensitivity analyses. There was significant statistical and clinical heterogeneity among the studies for the main analysis and most of the sensitivity analyses. Key Messages: Our results suggest that benzodiazepine use is significantly associated with dementia risk. However, observational studies cannot clarify whether the observed epidemiologic association is a causal effect or the result of some unmeasured confounding variable. Therefore, more research is needed."
meta-analysis	NED458411	Is Periodontal Disease Associated with Alzheimer's Disease? A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis Is Periodontal Disease Associated with Alzheimer's Disease? A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis Background: In the last decade, several observational studies have suggested that there exists an association between periodontal disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this systematic review was to investigate whether or not this link exists. Summary: The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guideline for systematic review was used and registered at PROSPERO (CRD42016035377). The search strategy included using electronic databases and by hand searching articles published up to January 2016. MEDLINE via PubMed, EMBASE and Web of Science were searched by 2 independent reviewers. Observational studies including patients meeting criteria for both AD and PD were eligible to be included in the analysis. Quality assessment of selected studies was performed by the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. From a total of 550 titles and abstracts, 5 studies were included (2 cross-sectional, 2 case-control and one cohort study) in the review. A fixed effects meta-analysis showed that the presence of PD is associated with the presence of AD (OR 1.69, 95% CI 1.21-2.35). When only severe forms of PD were evaluated, a significant association was also observed (OR 2.98, 95% CI 1.58-5.62). Key Messages: In the present review, a significant association was observed between PD and AD. Further studies should be carried out in order to investigate the direction of the association and factors that may confound it.
meta-analysis	NED478017	"Effect of Influenza Vaccination on Risk of Stroke: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effect of Influenza Vaccination on Risk of Stroke: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Despite the presence of a strong association between influenza infection and stroke, whether influenza vaccination reduces the risk of stroke is yet a matter of controversy. We conducted a meta-analysis to determine whether influenza vaccination protects against stroke. Methods: We searched PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library from database inception date to November 18, 2016, without language restrictions, to identify studies investigating the effect of influenza vaccination on subsequent risk of stroke. We conducted a meta-analysis to quantify the risk of stroke in overall and subgroup analyses and calculated a pooled OR for developing stroke with a 95% CI. Publication bias was assessed by Begg's rank correlation test. Results: Eleven studies fulfilled our inclusion criteria. In a random-effects model, vaccinated individuals had a decreased risk of stroke compared with unvaccinated individuals (OR 0.82; 95% CI 0.75-0.91; p &lt; 0.001). The relationship between influenza vaccination and stroke risk remained robust in subgroup analyses. The significant effect of influenza vaccination was associated with ascertainment of vaccination status and stage of prevention. Conclusion: Vaccination against influenza is associated with a lower risk of stroke. Well-designed prospective studies are needed to provide stronger evidence of the protective effect of influenza vaccination against stroke."
review-article	NED478702	Non-Motor Symptoms Assessed by Non-Motor Symptoms Questionnaire and Non-Motor Symptoms Scale in Parkinson's Disease in Selected Asian Populations Non-Motor Symptoms Assessed by Non-Motor Symptoms Questionnaire and Non-Motor Symptoms Scale in Parkinson's Disease in Selected Asian Populations Background: Ethnic variations have been described in medical conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis. Whether ethnicity plays a role in Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly with regard to non-motor symptoms (NMS), remains unclear. Existing literature is diverse, controversial, and inadequately documented. This review aims to analyse and report the currently available literature on NMS, specifically in Asian PD patients. Summary: We conducted a literature review using PubMed, searching for articles and currently available publications that reference and assess NMS in PD patients living in Asia using the validated NMS Questionnaire (NMS Quest) and NMS Scale (NMSS). In total, 24 articles were included: 12 using the NMS Quest and 12 using the NMSS. Symptoms of constipation, memory impairment, and nocturia were the most frequently self-reported symptoms (NMS Quest) in selected Asian populations, while symptoms within the domains sleep/fatigue, attention/memory, and mood/apathy were most prevalent when applying the health-professional completed NMSS. Key Messages: NMS are generally prevalent and highly burdensome within selected Asian PD populations living in countries included in this review. Our review suggests that NMS-driven phenotypic heterogeneity is present in Asian patients, and compared to Western PD populations there might be variations in assessed NMS.
systematic-review	NED479518	"Strategies to Improve Stroke Care Services in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: A Systematic Review Strategies to Improve Stroke Care Services in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: A Systematic Review Background: The burden of stroke in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) is large and increasing, challenging the already stretched health-care services. Aims and Objectives: To determine the quality of existing stroke-care services in LMICs and to highlight indigenous, inexpensive, evidence-based implementable strategies being used in stroke-care. Methods: A detailed literature search was undertaken using PubMed and Google scholar from January 1966 to October 2015 using a range of search terms. Of 921 publications, 373 papers were shortlisted and 31 articles on existing stroke-services were included. Results: We identified efficient models of ambulance transport and pre-notification. Stroke Units (SU) are available in some countries, but are relatively sparse and mostly provided by the private sector. Very few patients were thrombolysed; this could be increased with telemedicine and governmental subsidies. Adherence to secondary preventive drugs is affected by limited availability and affordability, emphasizing the importance of primary prevention. Training of paramedics, care-givers and nurses in post-stroke care is feasible. Conclusion: In this systematic review, we found several reports on evidence-based implementable stroke services in LMICs. Some strategies are economic, feasible and reproducible but remain untested. Data on their outcomes and sustainability is limited. Further research on implementation of locally and regionally adapted stroke-services and cost-effective secondary prevention programs should be a priority."
research-article	NED492819	Global and Regional Trends of Multiple Sclerosis Disability-Adjusted Life Years Rates: A 25-Year Assessment Global and Regional Trends of Multiple Sclerosis Disability-Adjusted Life Years Rates: A 25-Year Assessment Background: Multiple sclerosis (MS) burden of disease has been described by reporting the disability-adjusted life years (DALY) index. So far, no study has assessed the trend of MS DALY rates over time. Method: Age-standardized MS DALY rates for both sexes were reported every 5 years from 1990 to 2015 in 195 countries in the Global Burden of Disease Database (GBD) database. To assess the MS DALY rates’ trends in each super region and throughout the world, we applied the Latent Growth Models. We also utilized the linear mixed model to evaluate the effect of development factor on MS DALY rates. Results: Our results showed that 5 out of 7 GBD super regions had negative trends in MS DALY rates during these years and the remaining 2 – Latin America and the Caribbean (slope = 0.196, p &
research-article	NEE349935	"The Calcimimetic Calindol Prevents High Phosphate-Induced Vascular Calcification by Upregulating Matrix GLA Protein The Calcimimetic Calindol Prevents High Phosphate-Induced Vascular Calcification by Upregulating Matrix GLA Protein Background: High serum phosphate (Pi) levels represent a major issue in dialysis patients, because associate with secondary hyperparathyroidism, vascular calcification (VC), and cardiovascular outcomes. In this population, calcimimetics are used to control secondary hyperparathyroidism, hyperphosphatemia, and, more recently, to delay the progression of VC. The aim of this in vitro study was to investigate the direct effects of the calcimimetic calindol on the progression of high Pi-induced VC. Methods: Rat vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) were incubated with high Pi concentrations, and the effects of calindol were investigated on vascular calcium deposition and VSMC osteoblastic differentiation. Results: Calindol inhibited calcium deposition concentration-dependently with a maximal inhibition of 64.0 ± 5.2% achieved at 100 nM. Furthermore, calindol was able to partially prevent the high Pi-induced bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP-2) expression upregulation (32.4 ± 4.6% of inhibition; p &lt; 0.01). Interestingly, the pretreatment with calindol enhanced the matrix Gla protein (MGP) gene expression significantly, compared to high Pi-treated cells (40.2 ± 6.6% of increase, p &lt; 0.01). Conclusions: In conclusion, we demonstrated that the calcimimetic calindol prevents high Pi-induced VC by affecting osteoblastic differentiation in vitro. In particular, the inhibitory effect of calindol on VC is probably due to its stimulatory role on the calcium-sensing receptor, leading to an increase in the synthesis of MGP by VSMCs."
meta-analysis	NEF368235	"Effect of Neutral pH and Low-Glucose Degradation Product-Containing Peritoneal Dialysis Solution on Residual Renal Function in Peritoneal Dialysis Patients: A Meta-Analysis Effect of Neutral pH and Low-Glucose Degradation Product-Containing Peritoneal Dialysis Solution on Residual Renal Function in Peritoneal Dialysis Patients: A Meta-Analysis Background: Glucose degradation products (GDPs) in peritoneal dialysis (PD) solution (PDS) have been shown to inflict damage to the kidney, which is the major organ for advanced glycosylation end product elimination. Hence, this study investigated whether new PDSs with neutral pH and low-GDPs have a beneficial effect on the preservation of residual renal function (RRF) among PD patients. Methods: Randomized controlled trials examining the effect of neutral pH and low-GDP PDSs on RRF in PD patients &gt;18 years old compared with conventional PDSs were selected. The modality of PD treatment was continuous ambulatory PD. The primary outcome variable was mean RRF value. Weekly Kt/V, urine volume, peritoneal ultrafiltration, blood pressure and all-cause mortality of PD patients were measured as secondary outcome variables. Results: We identified 6 randomized controlled trials and found that patients using low-GDP PDSs had a much slower rate of RRF loss compared with patients using conventional PDSs [mean difference (MD) = 0.45, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 0.10-0.80, p = 0.01]. In addition, weekly Kt/V was markedly improved in the low-GDP PDS group (MD = 0.13, 95% CI 0.06-0.21, p = 0.0005), and urine volume was increased (MD = 110.34, 95% CI 8.58-212.10, p = 0.03). No significant differences were observed between the two groups with respect to peritoneal ultrafiltration, blood pressure and risk of all-cause mortality. Conclusion: Our meta-analysis demonstrates a significant benefit of using low-GDP PDSs for RRF preservation in PD patients. Further trials are needed to determine whether this beneficial effect can affect long-term clinical outcomes."
meta-analysis	NEF371447	"Effect of Ultrafiltration versus Intravenous Furosemide for Decompensated Heart Failure in Cardiorenal Syndrome: A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Effect of Ultrafiltration versus Intravenous Furosemide for Decompensated Heart Failure in Cardiorenal Syndrome: A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: Ultrafiltration is an adjunctive treatment for decompensated heart failure patients with cardiorenal syndrome. The efficacy and safety of ultrafiltration in the patient cohort are still unknown. Methods: We systematically reviewed and evaluated randomized controlled trials, comparing diuretics with ultrafiltration in adult patients with decompensated heart failure and cardiorenal syndrome through January 2014. The primary outcomes were body weight loss and total fluid removal. Results: We identified 8 trials including 608 patients. In a random-effects model, the pooled difference of body weight loss was 1.44 kg between patients receiving ultrafiltration and diuretics (95% CI, 0.29-2.59; p = 0.01). The difference of fluid removal was 1.28 l between groups (95% CI, 0.43-2.12; p = 0.003). The RR for mortality was 0.90 for ultrafiltration compared with diuretics (95% CI, 0.61-1.33; p = 0.60) and the RR for renal function deterioration was 1.29 (95% CI, 0.90-1.85; p = 0.17). There is a trend toward reducing readmission rate in ultrafiltration group. Conclusions: Ultrafiltration is a safe and effective strategy in the treatment of cardiorenal syndrome without increasing the risk of renal deterioration."
research-article	NEF371888	"Establishing a Supportive Care Register Improves End-of-Life Care for Patients with Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Establishing a Supportive Care Register Improves End-of-Life Care for Patients with Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Background: End-of-life care for patients with advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD) is recognised as an important area for improvement. These patients have a significant mortality and, although some is unpredictable, there is a role for the nephrology multi-disciplinary team (MDT) and palliative care physicians to engage in advance care planning and support patients to discuss their preferences. Methods: Retrospective and prospective data were obtained to conduct a comparison observational study to assess the impact of introducing a supportive care register on the end-of-life care for patients with advanced CKD. An electronic supportive care register was implemented. This required a programme of multi-disciplinary staff education, collaborative working with Palliative Care to establish renal-specific protocols and dissemination activities. The impact of the intervention was assessed by analysing all deaths in two six-month periods where all those with an eGFR &lt;15 ml/min/1.73 m2 at the time of their death were included. Results: A total of 91 patients were included. Post-intervention, there was a 25.4% (95% CI: 6.5-44.3%, p = 0.008) improvement in patients having a documented discussion about end-of-life planning. There was also a 19.7% (95% CI: 4.0-35.5%, p = 0.01) improvement in establishing the place of death. All patients who expressed a preferred place of death died there. The intervention increased engagement with the wider MDT and led to significant improvements in access to specialist palliative care services. Conclusions: These results show that the interventions implemented to introduce a supportive care register resulted in meaningful improvements to the end-of-life care for patients in our region with advanced CKD."
case-report	NEF442051	TGFβ-Induced Actin Cytoskeleton Rearrangement in Podocytes Is Associated with Compensatory Adaptation of Mitochondrial Energy Metabolism TGFβ-Induced Actin Cytoskeleton Rearrangement in Podocytes Is Associated with Compensatory Adaptation of Mitochondrial Energy Metabolism Background/Aims: In podocytes, the overexpression of TGFβ ligands and receptors during glomerulosclerosis could be a causal factor for injury induction and perpetuation in glomerular tufts. Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are emerging as potential therapeutic targets in glomerular injury, and TGFβ has been shown to modulate mitochondrial metabolism in different cell types. This study aims at investigating the role of TGFβ in podocyte energy metabolism and cytoskeleton dynamics. Methods: Mitochondrial function and cytoskeleton dynamics were analyzed in TGFβ-treated WT and Smad2/3 double KO podocytes. Results: TGFβ treatment in podocytes induced a significant Smad-dependent increase of mitochondrial oxygen consumption rate (OCR). ATP content was unchanged and increased respiration was not associated with increased mitochondrial mass. Increased cellular reactive oxygen species induced by Smad-mediated TGFβ signaling were reverted by NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocynin. TGFβ treatment did not induce mitochondrial oxidative stress, and Smad2/3-dependent TGFβ signaling and increased mitochondrial OCR were found to be associated with actin cytoskeleton dynamics. The role of motor proteins myosin II and dynamin in TGFβ-induced actin polymerization was demonstrated by specific inhibition, resulting in actin stabilization and normalization of mitochondrial OCR. Conclusion: TGFβ-induced rearrangements of actin cytoskeleton are controlled by Smad2/3 signaling pathways and coupled with the activation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis as bioenergetic adaptation to ATP consumption by ATP- and GTP-dependent motor proteins, myosin II and dynamin.
meta-analysis	NEF445167	Effect of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors in Contrast-Induced Nephropathy: A Meta-Analysis Effect of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors in Contrast-Induced Nephropathy: A Meta-Analysis Aims: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) on contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in patients undergoing coronary angiography or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Methods: We searched the Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Chongqing VIP database and Wanfang database up to December 2014. Pooled risk ratios (RRs) or weighted mean difference (WMD) with their 95% CIs for the CIN incidence, serum creatinine (SCr), estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) of the patients were collected and calculated using the software Review Manager 5.2. Results: A total of 12 separate studies including 1,868 patients (1,011 ACEI cases and 857 controls) were considered in the meta-analysis. The overall RR of the incident CIN in the ACEI group vs. the control group was 0.95 (95% CI 0.57-1.58), and the total WMDs of the &
review-article	NEF448183	The Hyperfiltering Kidney in Diabetes The Hyperfiltering Kidney in Diabetes Hyperfiltering kidney is a typical feature of diabetes. Improvement observed with regard to glucose control and blood pressure control reduces the high glomerular filtration rate and may contribute to retard the appearance and the progression of diabetic renal disease. Although the mechanism of hyperfiltration is still unclear, there is mounting evidence that the increased reabsorption of glucose and sodium by sodium glucose transporter-2 (SGLT-2) is involved in this altered renal function. There is a possibility that SGLT-2 inhibition may correct hyperfiltration in diabetes, adding a new therapeutic approach to halt renal disease in patients with diabetes.
meta-analysis	NEF450893	Glomerular Filtration Rate in Healthy Living Potential Kidney Donors: A Meta-Analysis Supporting the Construction of the Full Age Spectrum Equation Glomerular Filtration Rate in Healthy Living Potential Kidney Donors: A Meta-Analysis Supporting the Construction of the Full Age Spectrum Equation Background: Normal kidney function or, more specifically, normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in men and women and its decline with age is still much debated today. The Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) equation has gender (and race) multiplication factors, accounts for a decline that starts at very young age and assumes that the mean GFR is as high as 120-130 ml/min/1.73 m2 from a young age. The full age spectrum (FAS) estimated mean GFR is about 107 ml/min/1.73 m2 at a young age and remains constant until the age of 40 years and then starts to decline both in men and women. The aim of this research study was to give more insight into ‘normal' GFR levels and the physiological decrease of kidney function with age and to use a meta-analysis to evaluate the mathematical construction of the FAS and the CKD-EPI equation. Methods: We conducted a meta-analysis of published GFR measurements in healthy Caucasian living potential kidney donors (n = 5,482, 46.8% men). Only publications dating from 2000 were selected to avoid the possible influence of body surface area changes in the last decades on the indexed GFR, expressed in ml/min/1.73 m2. Results: We found that the mean GFR ≈ 107 ml/min/1.73 m2 up to the age of 40 years, but renal decline begins beyond 40 years. No evidence could be found for any difference between men and women in the separate age groups. Conclusions: The current meta-analysis supports the mathematical form of the FAS equation, which matches the age/sex dependency of measured GFR for healthy potential living kidney donors.
review-article	NEF453531	An Overview of Errors and Flaws of Estimated GFR versus True GFR in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus An Overview of Errors and Flaws of Estimated GFR versus True GFR in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus The determination of renal function is crucial in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM), a population at risk for chronic kidney disease (CKD). Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) can be measured (mGFR) with gold standard methods or estimated (eGFR) with formulas. Since 1957, when Effersoe published the first formula, more than 50 equations have been developed to estimate GFR. In this review, we examined the studies that compared mGFR and eGFR in patients with T2DM to analyze the performance of those formulae in this population. In cross-sectional studies, the average error of eGFR was ±30% of mGFR. Thus, in a patient with mGFR of 60 mL/min, eGFR may vary from 42 to 78 mL/min. Moreover, many patients were misclassified according to CKD stages. Formulas failed to detect glomerular hyperfiltration. In longitudinal studies, eGFR poorly reflected real GFR decline over time. All studies showed that eGFR decline was slower than mGFR decline. Notably, no major improvement in accuracy and precision has been observed since 1957 despite the use of cystatin-c. Thus, formulas are not reliable indicators of GFR in patients with T2DM. In clinical studies, where GFR is the main outcome measure of the study, eGFR should be avoided.
review-article	NEF453673	"Effect of AST-120 in Chronic Kidney Disease Treatment: Still a Controversy? Effect of AST-120 in Chronic Kidney Disease Treatment: Still a Controversy? AST-120 (kremezin; Kureha Chemical, Tokyo, Japan) is an oral spherical carbonaceous adsorbent, which was approved for clinical use in Japanese chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients in 1991. It adsorbs indole, the precursor of indoxyl sulfate, in the intestines and prevents indoxyl sulfate production. Indoxyl sulfate, initially identified as a major uremic toxin that causes uremic symptoms, contributes to CKD progression. Since AST-120 decreases serum indoxyl sulfate in a dose-dependent manner, multicenter prospective trials have been conducted in Japan in the 1980s; these trials were mostly in favor of the efficacy of AST-120 in delaying the initiation of dialysis in patients with advanced stage CKD. Many animal studies support the effects of AST-120 on renal outcomes as well as on cardiovascular complications. However, there are yet no reports that unequivocally demonstrate the improvement of hard renal endpoints and/or cardiovascular endpoints. This commentary briefly reviews the major outcomes of the recent clinical trials on AST-120."
meta-analysis	NEF454683	"Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review of Randomized Clinical Trials Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review of Randomized Clinical Trials Background: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is common in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and limits therapeutic options. Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors represent a novel class of oral glucose-lowering agents and are known to be safe and effective in the general population. Methods: We searched Cochrane, EMBASE, and PubMed from the time of their inception until March 2015. We included randomized controlled trials analyzing the efficacy (change in hemoglobin A1C [HbA1C]) and safety of DPP-4 agents in individuals with reduced kidney function (estimated glomerular filtration rate &lt;60 mL/min/1.73 m2). We extracted study characteristics, participants' baseline characteristics, and safety outcomes from eligible studies. We performed a random effects meta-analysis to summarize the change in HbA1C and the relative risk of cardiovascular events in patients with T2DM and CKD. We also collected data on hypoglycemia, other serious adverse events, and mortality. Results: We reviewed 12 studies with 4,403 patients with CKD and 239 on dialysis, finding a mean weighted decline in HbA1C of -0.48 (95% CI -0.61 to -0.35) with DPP-4 inhibitor therapy compared to placebo. DPP-4 inhibitors did not result in any additional adverse events, hypoglycemic episodes, or increased mortality. Restricting to studies with low risk of bias did not alter these findings. Conclusions: DPP-4 inhibitors can lower HbA1C without increasing the risk of cardiovascular or other major adverse events in patients with CKD. Few studies reported critical adverse events such as heart failure and hypersensitivity. If compared with other oral antiglycemic drugs, the effect of DPP-4 inhibitors is limited; however, their low risk of hypoglycemia may favor their use in patients with CKD. Summary: This systematic review of DPP-4 inhibitors in CKD suggests that they reduce HbA1C by about 0.5%. Furthermore, there was not any increase in the risk for significant adverse events. More research is needed to determine the safety and efficacy of DPP-4 inhibitors in CKD."
meta-analysis	NEF477361	"Dialysis Therapy and Conservative Management of Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in the Elderly: A Systematic Review Dialysis Therapy and Conservative Management of Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in the Elderly: A Systematic Review Background: Dialysis in older adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and comorbidities may not be associated with improved life expectancy compared to conservative management. To inform clinical practice, we performed a systematic review of all available studies examining this hypothesis. Methods: We performed a systematic review of retrospective and prospective cohort studies of older adults with stage-5 CKD who chose dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) or opted for conservative management (including management of complications of CKD and palliative care). Outcomes of interest included hospitalizations and mortality. Results: Twelve cohort studies (11,515 patients) were identified with most of them focusing on older adults. Patients choosing dialysis were younger compared to those opting for conservative management and were less functionally impaired. Patients opting for conservative management received care in a multidisciplinary setting focusing on palliative care and management of complications of CKD. Patients choosing dialysis and conservative management had a median survival time of 8-67 and 6-30 months, respectively. In a subset of studies of patients 65 years and older with an estimated glomerular filtration rate &lt;15 mL/min/1.73 m2, and where the multivariable analyses included age and comorbidities, by meta-analysis, patients choosing dialysis had a pooled adjusted hazard ratio for mortality of 0.53 (95% CI 0.30-0.91, p = 0.02) relative to those opting for conservative management; however, significant heterogeneity precluded definitive conclusions. Conclusions: When caring for older adults with advanced CKD who are contemplating dialysis therapy vs. conservative management, efforts must focus on promoting patient values and preferences, shared decision-making, and symptom burden alleviation."
research-article	NEF494223	Diagnostic Accuracy of Frailty Screening Methods in Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Diagnostic Accuracy of Frailty Screening Methods in Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Background/Aims: Frail patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have an increased hospitalisation and mortality rate. However, many popular frailty screening methods have not been validated in patients with CKD. This study evaluates the diagnostic accuracy of several frailty screening methods in patients with CKD G4–5 and those established on haemodialysis (G5D). Methods: Ninety participants with CKD G4–5D were recruited from Nephrology Outpatient Clinics and 2 Haemodialysis Units between December 2016 and December 2017. Frailty was diagnosed using the Fried Frailty Phenotype. The following frailty screening tests were evaluated: Clinical Frailty Scale, PRISMA-7, CKD Frailty Index, CKD FI-LAB, walking speed, hand grip strength and Short Physical Performance Battery. Results: The mean age of participants was 69 years (SD ±13). One-third of participants were dialysis-dependent. Nineteen (21%) patients were categorised as frail, 42 (47%) as pre-frail and 29 (32%) as robust. Overall, walking speed was the most discriminative measure (AUC 0.97 [95% CI 0.93–1.00], sensitivity 0.84 [95% CI 0.62–0.94], specificity 0.96 [95% CI 0.88–0.99]). The Clinical Frailty Scale had the best performance of the non-physical assessment frailty screening methods (AUC 0.90 [95% CI 0.84–0.97], sensitivity 0.79 [95% CI 0.57–0.91], specificity 0.87 [95% CI 0.78–0.93]). Conclusions: Walking speed can be used to accurately screen for frailty in CKD populations. If it is not practical to perform a physical assessment to screen for frailty, the Clinical Frailty Scale is a useful alternative.
review-article	NEF496009	"Better Being Single? Omics Improves Kidney Organoids Better Being Single? Omics Improves Kidney Organoids Context: Human kidney organoids are complex structures resembling nephron arrays, which can be derived in a variety of ways. Whether all of these differentiation protocols produce qualitatively similar organoid cell types is not yet clear. Subject of Review: A comparative analysis of 2 organoid differentiation protocols is recently reported in Cell Stem Cell [Wu et al.: Cell Stem Cell 2018;pii:S1934-5909(18)30491-0], using single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) as an analytical tool. This demonstrates that the 2 protocols have much in common, and that neither produces kidney cells in a pure or comprehensive manner. Ureteric lineages appear to be absent, and organoids are contaminated with non-kidney cell types, including neurons and muscle cells. Based on the scRNA-seq datasets, a new differentiation protocol is devised to reduce non-kidney cell types, without adversely affecting organoid epithelial cells. Second Opinion: Together with published analyses of a third differentiation protocol, these findings suggest more commonalities than differences between kidney organoid platforms, and identify critical strategies for functional improvement of these cellular structures."
review-article	NEN289568	Estrogen Actions on Neuroendocrine Glia Estrogen Actions on Neuroendocrine Glia Astrocytes are the most abundant cells in the central nervous system (CNS). It appears that astrocytes are as diverse as neurons, having different phenotypes in various regions throughout the brain and participating in intercellular communication that involves signaling to neurons. It is not surprising then that astrocytes in the hypothalamus have an active role in the CNS regulation of reproduction. In addition to the traditional mechanism involving ensheathment of neurons and processes, astrocytes may have a critical role in regulating estrogen-positive feedback. Work in our laboratory has focused on the relationship between circulating estradiol and progesterone synthesized de novo in the brain. We have demonstrated that circulating estradiol stimulates the synthesis of progesterone in adult hypothalamic astrocytes, and this neuroprogesterone is critical for initiating the LH surge. Estradiol cell signaling is initiated at the cell membrane and involves the transactivation of metabotropic glutamate receptor type 1a (mGluR1a) leading to the release of intracellular stores of calcium. We used surface biotinylation to demonstrate that estrogen receptor-α (ERα) is present in the cell membrane and has an extracellular portion. Like other membrane receptors, ERα is inserted into the membrane and removed via internalization after agonist stimulation. This trafficking is directly regulated by estradiol, which rapidly and transiently increases the levels of membrane ERα, and upon activation, increases internalization that finally leads to ERα degradation. This autoregulation temporally limits membrane-initiated estradiol cell signaling. Thus, neuroprogesterone, the necessary signal for the LH surge, is released when circulating levels of estradiol peak on proestrus and activate progesterone receptors whose expression has been induced by the gradual rise of estradiol during follicular development.
research-article	NEN350790	Cells Co-Expressing Luteinising Hormone and Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone Are Present in the Ovine Pituitary Pars Distalis but Not the Pars Tuberalis: Implications for the Control of Endogenous Circannual Rhythms of Prolactin Cells Co-Expressing Luteinising Hormone and Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone Are Present in the Ovine Pituitary Pars Distalis but Not the Pars Tuberalis: Implications for the Control of Endogenous Circannual Rhythms of Prolactin Background/Aims: A mammalian circannual pacemaker responsible for regulating the seasonal pattern of prolactin has been recently described in sheep. This pacemaker resides within the pars tuberalis, an area of the pituitary gland that densely expresses melatonin receptors. However, the chemical identity of the cell type which acts as the pacemaker remains elusive. Mathematical-modelling approaches have established that this cell must be responsive to the static melatonin signal as well as prolactin negative feedback. Considering that in sheep the gonadotroph is the only cell in the pars tuberalis which expresses the prolactin receptor, and that in other photoperiodic species the thyrotroph is the only cell expressing the melatonin receptor in this tissue, a cell type which expresses both proteins would fulfil the theoretical criteria of a circannual pacemaker. Methods: Pituitary glands were obtained from female sheep under short days (breeding season) and long days (non-breeding season) and double immunofluorescent staining was conducted to determine the prevalence of bi-hormonal cells in the pars distalis and pars tuberalis using specific antibodies to luteinising hormone-β and thyroid-stimulating hormone-β. Results: The results reveal that whilst such a bihormonal cell is clearly present in the pars distalis and constitute 4% of the gonadotroph population in this region, the same cell type is completely absent from the pars tuberalis even though LH gonadotrophs are abundantly expressed. Conclusions: Based on these findings, together with existing data, we are able to propose an alternative model where the gonadotroph itself is controlled indirectly by neighbouring melatonin responsive cells, allowing it to act as a pacemaker.
meta-analysis	NEN375164	"Diabetes, Smoking, Alcohol Use, and Family History of Cancer as Risk Factors for Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Diabetes, Smoking, Alcohol Use, and Family History of Cancer as Risk Factors for Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background and Aims: Risk factors for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNETs) are not well understood. The aim of this systematic review was to assess if diabetes mellitus, smoking, alcohol use, and family history of cancer are risk factors for PNETs. Methods: MEDLINE and abstracts from the European and North American Neuroendocrine Tumor Societies (ENETS and NANETS) were searched for studies published until October 2013. Eligible studies were selected according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement. Results: Five studies evaluating 4 individual populations were included (study accrual period 2000-2011) into the meta-analysis, involving 827 cases (range 160-309 per study) and 2,407 controls (range 233-924 per study). All studies had a case-control design and described regional series. The pooled adjusted odds ratio was 2.74 (95% CI: 1.63-4.62; p &lt; 0.01; I2 = 60.4%) for history of diabetes, 1.21 (95% CI: 0.92-1.58; p = 0.18; I2 = 45.8%) for ever smoking, 1.37 (95% CI: 0.99-1.91; p = 0.06; I2 = 0.0%) for heavy smoking, 1.09 (95% CI: 0.64-1.85; p = 0.75; I2 = 85.2%) for ever alcohol use, 2.72 (95% CI: 1.25-5.91; p = 0.01; I2 = 57.8%) for heavy alcohol use, and 2.16 (95% CI: 1.64-2.85; p &lt; 0.01; I2 = 0.0%) for first-degree family history of cancer. Conclusions: Diabetes mellitus and first-degree family history of cancer are associated with an increased risk of sporadic PNET. There was also a trend for diagnosis of sporadic PNET associated with heavy smoking. Alcohol use may be a risk factor for PNET, but there was considerable heterogeneity in the meta-analysis. These results suggest the need for a larger, homogeneous, international study for the clarification of risk factors for the occurrence of PNET."
meta-analysis	NEN442208	"Identification of an Immune-Neuroendocrine Biomarker Panel for Detection of Depression: A Joint Effects Statistical Approach Identification of an Immune-Neuroendocrine Biomarker Panel for Detection of Depression: A Joint Effects Statistical Approach Background/Aims: Less than half of depression patients are correctly diagnosed within the primary care setting. Previous proteomic studies have identified numerous immune and neuroendocrine changes in patients. However, few studies have considered the joint effects of biological molecules and their diagnostic potential. Our aim was to develop and validate a diagnostic serum biomarker panel identified through joint effects analysis of multiplex immunoassay profiling data from 1,007 clinical samples. Methods: In stage 1, we conducted a meta-analysis of two independent cohorts of 78 first-/recent-onset drug-naive/drug-free depression patients and 156 controls and applied the 10-fold cross-validation with least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression to identify an optimal diagnostic prediction model (biomarker panel). In stage 2, we tested the discriminatory performance of this biomarker panel using the naturalistic Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety (NESDA) cohort of 468 depression patients and 305 controls. Results: An optimal panel of 33 immune-neuroendocrine biomarkers and gender was selected in the meta-analysis. Testing this biomarker-gender panel using the NESDA cohort resulted in a moderate to good performance to differentiate patients from controls (0.69 &lt; AUC &lt; 0.86), particularly the first-episode patients free of chronic non-psychiatric diseases or medications and following incorporation of sociodemographic covariates (0.76 &lt; AUC &lt; 0.92). Conclusion: Despite the need for additional validation studies, we demonstrated that a blood-based biomarker-sociodemographic panel can detect depression in naturalistic healthcare settings with good discriminatory power. Further refinements of blood biomarker panels aiding in the diagnosis of depression may provide a cost-effective means to increase accuracy of clinical diagnosis within the primary care setting."
meta-analysis	NEN446115	"Systematic Review of the Role of Targeted Therapy in Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumors Systematic Review of the Role of Targeted Therapy in Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumors Background: Targeted therapies [interferon (IFN), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors, and somatostatin analogs (SSA)] have become an integral part of the neuroendocrine tumor (NET) treatment paradigm. We systematically reviewed the available literature to assess the overall beneficial and negative effects of targeted therapy on progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), response rate (RR), and toxicity. Methods: Randomized controlled trials (RCT) were identified from MEDLINE, Embase, other major databases, and an electronic search of major conferences. Abstract review, quality assessment, and data abstraction were performed independently by 2 investigators. Meta-analyses were conducted using the generic inverse variance method with a random-effects model, with studies pooled according to drug class and/or control arm for clinical homogeneity. Results: Fifteen RCT [SSA, n = 2; mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)/VEGF inhibitors, n = 4; IFN, n = 3; targeted therapy added to everolimus, n = 2, and other, n = 4] investigating 2,790 patients were included. Overall, targeted agents improved PFS (HR 0.54; 95% CI 0.40-0.73) but not OS (HR 0.86; 95% CI 0.72-1.01). SSA improved PFS (HR 0.41; 95% CI 0.29-0.58) but not OS (HR 1.00; 95% CI 0.58-1.74). mTOR/VEGF inhibitors improved PFS (HR 0.48; 95% CI 0.32-0.72) but not OS (HR 0.82; 95% CI 0.58-1.17). Targeted therapies added to everolimus or IFN did not improve either PFS or OS. The RR overall was improved (OR 2.85; 95% CI 1.77-4.59) but toxicity was increased (meta-analysis not performed). Conclusions: The addition of targeted therapies improves PFS but not OS in NET. The evidence is strongest for VEGF inhibitors and SSA. There is an ongoing need for well-designed RCT to inform the optimal use of targeted therapies in NET."
meta-analysis	NEN448844	"The Effect of the Exon-3-Deleted Growth Hormone Receptor on Pegvisomant-Treated Acromegaly: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Effect of the Exon-3-Deleted Growth Hormone Receptor on Pegvisomant-Treated Acromegaly: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The common exon 3 deletion polymorphism of the growth hormone receptor (d3-GHR) is associated with disease severity in acromegaly patients. The GHR antagonist pegvisomant (PEGV) is highly effective in treating severe acromegaly. Response to PEGV treatment seems to be influenced by d3-GHR and appears to be more responsive to PEGV, although available results remain conflicting. Objective: To assess the influence of d3-GHR on the responsiveness of acromegaly patients to PEGV by compiling the evidence derived from the largest available studies. Design: A systematic review of the literature identified three published studies and one conference abstract. Acromegaly patients (n = 324, 49.7% d3-GHR carriers) were treated with either PEGV monotherapy or PEGV combined with long-acting somatostatin analogues and/or cabergoline. A meta-analysis of raw data from these studies was performed. Results: No significant effect of the d3-GHR was observed while bringing insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) levels below the upper limit of normal with PEGV, which was defined as the lowest IGF-I level during PEGV treatment (mean difference: -2.3%; 95% CI: -6.5 to 1.8, p = 0.270). The PEGV dose required to achieve the lowest IGF-I levels was also not significantly influenced by individuals carrying d3-GHR (mean difference: 4.1 mg weekly; 95% CI: -5.1 to 13.2, p = 0.385). For both outcomes, separate analysis of PEGV monotherapy and combination treatment gave similar results. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the d3-GHR polymorphism has no effect on biochemical disease control in acromegaly, as it is not of added value for either the prediction of PEGV responsiveness or the determination of the required PEGV dose."
review-article	NEN453664	"Effect of Gonadal Hormones on Neurotransmitters Implicated in the Pathophysiology of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: A Critical Review Effect of Gonadal Hormones on Neurotransmitters Implicated in the Pathophysiology of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: A Critical Review Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a relatively common neuropsychiatric disorder affecting between 1.6 and 3.2% of the population. A number of studies have previously reported increased incidence of OCD, or exacerbation of preexisting symptoms in females during reproductive events. Since these periods are known to involve fluctuating levels of gonadal hormones, these steroids have been suggested to be involved in modulating the course of the disorder. However, to date, only a few studies have measured hormone levels and obsessive-compulsive (OC) symptoms concurrently; thus, direct evidence for this relationship is limited. In turn, investigations into neurotransmission in OC individuals have been more extensive, and have implicated the serotonergic, dopaminergic, and glutamatergic neurotransmitter systems in OCD pathology. There is evidence suggesting that reproductive hormones estrogens and progesterone can modulate neurotransmission in the aforementioned signaling pathways by regulating the expression of receptors and channels, as well as the synthesis and release of the neurotransmitter itself. Overall, estrogen and progesterone appear to enhance serotonin signaling, which has been associated with improved OC symptoms. The effect of the gonadal hormones in dopaminergic and glutamatergic signaling is much more variable, highlighting the need for further research in this field. The existing evidence shows that gonadal hormones can have profound impacts on neurotransmission in the brain, leading to the conclusion that the hormonal fluctuations during reproductive events are a plausible factor contributing to the change in OCD course during these times."
review-article	NEN455232	Innate Obesity, Revealed by Selection Markers, Confers Significant Imprint of Hypothalamic Genes Controlling Energy Expenditure Innate Obesity, Revealed by Selection Markers, Confers Significant Imprint of Hypothalamic Genes Controlling Energy Expenditure The incidence of obesity is rapidly escalating and has reached epidemic proportions. In all species, including rodents, humans, and sheep, there is large variation in the degree of weight gain across individuals in response to an obesogenic environment. This individual variation is, at least in part, determined by innate differences in energy expenditure, of which adaptive thermogenesis is a key component. The hypothalamus is essential to the control of body weight and adiposity. Appetite-regulating peptides within the hypothalamus exert reciprocal effects on food intake and energy expenditure, such that neuropeptides that stimulate food intake inhibit thermogenesis and vice versa. This review discusses the role of the hypothalamic neuropeptides in determining innate predisposition to obesity in 3 animal models being obesity-prone and obesity-resistant rodents, genetically lean and obese sheep, and animals selected for high/low cortisol responsiveness. In rodents, leptin resistance is a primary feature of the propensity to become obese. This contrasts that of larger mammals, such as sheep, where altered susceptibility to obesity manifests within the melanocortin and/or orexin pathways. This review highlights fundamental species differences within the hypothalamus that lead to altered susceptibility to weight gain and increased propensity to become obese.
review-article	NEN455233	Cardiometabolic Risks in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: Non-Traditional Risk Factors and the Impact of Obesity Cardiometabolic Risks in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: Non-Traditional Risk Factors and the Impact of Obesity Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common and complex endocrinopathy with reproductive, metabolic, and psychological features and significantly increased cardiometabolic risks. PCOS is underpinned by inherent insulin resistance and hyperandrogenism. Obesity, more common in PCOS, plays an important role in the pathophysiology, exacerbating hyperinsulinaemia and hyperandrogenism, leading to recommended first-line lifestyle intervention. Significant traditional and non-traditional risk factors are implicated in PCOS in addition to obesity-exacerbated cardiometabolic risks and are explored in this review to promote the understanding of this common metabolic and reproductive condition.
review-article	NEN475527	"Digestive System Mixed Neuroendocrine-Non-Neuroendocrine Neoplasms Digestive System Mixed Neuroendocrine-Non-Neuroendocrine Neoplasms Mixed neuroendocrine-non-neuroendocrine neoplasms (MiNEN) are a heterogeneous subgroup of rare neoplasms that represent about a third of all poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas (PDNEC). MiNEN combine a neuroendocrine component, usually a PDNEC, and a non-neuroendocrine component, generally an adenocarcinoma, both accounting for at least 30% of the neoplasm. MiNEN are classified as high-, intermediate-, or low-grade malignancies depending on the metastatic potential of the tumour components. High-grade malignant component should be considered even if it represents &lt;30% of the tumour. The prognosis of MiNEN is generally intermediate between those of the two “pure” components composing it. The aim of this comprehensive review of the literature is to suggest a standardized management of MiNEN. An increasing body of evidence suggests that PDNEC components share molecular abnormalities with their adenocarcinoma counterparts, but also display additional alterations. This advocates for a common origin, and that the presence of a PDNEC component in an adenocarcinoma could indicate a turning point in carcinogenesis."
systematic-review	NEN475793	A Systematic Review of Symptoms and Quality of Life Issues in Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumours A Systematic Review of Symptoms and Quality of Life Issues in Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumours Purpose: Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (pNETs) are rare neoplasms, in that they may only present symptoms of the hormone secreted, without any generic cancer issues. It is thus important to measure quality of life (QoL) in these patients by evaluating issues relevant and important to them, as opposed to general cancer issues. This paper systematically reviews papers addressing the symptoms and QoL implications of pNETs, and evaluates each subtype separately, with the aim to create a list of QoL issues relevant to these patient groups. Methods: Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycInfo, Web of Science, Scopus, OpenGrey, and the Cochrane Library were searched for publications (1990-2016) reporting symptoms and QoL issues in pNETs. Results: Following screening of 2,797 papers, 69 articles were eligible for data extraction. From these papers, 84 different symptoms or QoL issues were extracted: 21 for gastrinoma, 18 for glucagonoma, 50 for insulinoma, 10 for VIPoma and 15 for non-functioning pNETs. No issues were reported for somatostatinoma, PPoma or ACTHoma. The most frequently reported symptoms vary by subtype. Conclusions: This review emphasises the need to develop a QoL measure for pNETs with specific items relevant to the different subtypes, due to the distinct symptoms reported. Following from this review, patient and healthcare professional interviews will be conducted in large cohorts across many different countries to collect more data on QoL issues specific to pNETs. This data will all be collated with the aim to create a QoL measure for pNETs.
review-article	NEN480086	New Molecular, Biological, and Immunological Agents Inducing Hypophysitis New Molecular, Biological, and Immunological Agents Inducing Hypophysitis Hypophysitis is a relatively rare disease that exerts a strong autoimmune component encompassing different etiologies. Immunomodulatory drugs, such as interferon-α, are known to rarely induce hypophysitis. In recent years, a large number of new biological and immunomodulatory agents have been introduced into clinical practice. Although immune-suppressing agents used for the treatment of autoimmune disorders only rarely are associated with hypophysitis, it is commonly encountered with immunomodulatory agents used for the treatment of cancer. Hypophysitis related to anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 antibodies (anti-CTLA-4 Abs) occurs with a prevalence ranging from 0 to 18% and is considered a distinctive side effect of anti-CTLA-4 Abs treatment. Hypophysitis due to the programmed cell death protein-1 antibodies and their ligand is less common, its frequency ranging from 0 to 0.8%. No cases of hypophysitis have been described with molecular targeted agents. Diagnosis of hypophysitis still remains clinical since anti-pituitary antibodies are not a sensitive marker and thus its true prevalence is probably underestimated. The pathophysiology of hypophysitis induced by anticancer agents is not fully clarified. In most cases, treatment requires dose adjustment of the offending drug and pituitary hormone replacement. This mini-review aims to present currently available information regarding hypophysitis related to new molecular, biological, and immunological agents.
review-article	NEN494085	The Nuclear Translocation of Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases: Molecular Mechanisms and Use as Novel Therapeutic Target The Nuclear Translocation of Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases: Molecular Mechanisms and Use as Novel Therapeutic Target The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are central signaling pathways that play a central role in the regulation of most stimulated cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation, stress response and apoptosis. Currently 4 such cascades are known, each termed by its downstream MAPK components: the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), cJun-N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 and ERK5. One of the hallmarks of these cascades is the stimulated nuclear translocation of their MAPK components using distinct mechanisms. ERK1/2 are shuttled into the nucleus by importin7, JNK and p38 by a dimer of importin3 with either importin9 or importin7, and ERK5 by importin-α/β. Dysregulation of these cascades often results in diseases, including cancer and inflammation, as well as developmental and neurological disorders. Much effort has been invested over the years in developing inhibitors to the MAPK cascades to combat these diseases. Although some inhibitors are already in clinical use or clinical trials, their effects are hampered by development of resistance or adverse side-effects. Recently, our group developed 2 myristoylated peptides: EPE peptide, which inhibits the interaction of ERK1/2 with importin7, and PERY peptide, which prevents JNK/p38 interaction with either importin7 or importin9. These peptides block the nuclear translocation of their corresponding kinases, resulting in prevention of several cancers, while the PERY peptide also inhibits inflammation-induced diseases. These peptides provide a proof of concept for the use of the nuclear translocation of MAPKs as therapeutic targets for cancer and/or inflammation.
review-article	NEN494086	Haploinsufficiency of Homeodomain Proteins Six3, Vax1, and Otx2 Causes Subfertility in Mice via Distinct Mechanisms Haploinsufficiency of Homeodomain Proteins Six3, Vax1, and Otx2 Causes Subfertility in Mice via Distinct Mechanisms Haploinsufficiency occurs when loss of one copy of a diploid gene (hemizygosity) causes a phenotype. It is relatively rare, in that most genes can produce sufficient mRNA and protein from a single copy to prevent any loss of normal activity and function. Reproduction is a complex process relying on migration of GnRH neurons from the olfactory placode to the hypothalamus during development. We have studied 3 different homeodomain genes Otx2, Vax1, and Six3 and found that the deletion of one allele for any of these genes in mice produces subfertility or infertility in one or both sexes, despite the presence of one intact allele. All 3 heterozygous mice have reduced numbers of GnRH neurons, but the mechanisms of subfertility differ significantly. This review compares the subfertility phenotypes and their mechanisms.
review-article	NEN494557	Endospanin 1 Determines the Balance of Leptin-Regulated Hypothalamic Functions Endospanin 1 Determines the Balance of Leptin-Regulated Hypothalamic Functions Endospanin 1 (Endo1), a protein encoded in humans by the same gene than the leptin receptor (ObR), and increased by diet-induced obesity, is an important regulator of ObR trafficking and cell surface exposure, determining leptin signaling strength. Defective intracellular trafficking of the leptin receptor to the neuronal plasma membrane has been proposed as a mechanism underlying the development of leptin resistance observed in human obesity. More recently, Endo1 has emerged as a mediator of “selective leptin resistance.” The underlying mechanisms of the latter are not completely understood, but the possibility of differential activation of leptin signaling pathways was suggested among others. In this respect, the expression level of Endo1 is crucial for the appropriate balance between different leptin signaling pathways and leptin functions in the hypothalamus and is likely participating in selective leptin resistance for the control of energy and glucose homeostasis.
review-article	NEN494558	Sexual Behavior: From Hormonal Regulation to Endocrine Disruption Sexual Behavior: From Hormonal Regulation to Endocrine Disruption Sexual behavior constitutes a chain of behavioral responses beginning with courtship and leading to copulation. These responses, which are exhibited in a sexually dimorphic manner by the two partners, are tightly regulated by sex steroid hormones as early as the perinatal period. Hormonal changes or exposure to exogenous factors exhibiting hormone-mimetic activities, such as endocrine disrupting compounds (EDC), can therefore interfere with their expression. Here we review the experimental studies in rodents performed to address the potential effects of exposure to EDC on sexual behavior and underlying mechanisms, with particular attention to molecules with estrogenic and/or anti-androgenic activities.
review-article	NEN494725	Hyperprolactinemia/Prolactinomas in the Postmenopausal Period: Challenges in Diagnosis and Management Hyperprolactinemia/Prolactinomas in the Postmenopausal Period: Challenges in Diagnosis and Management Hyperprolactinemia is not a common finding in postmenopausal women. Prolactinomas detected after menopause are usually macroadenomas. Due to atypical clinical features they may remain unrecognized for a long period of time. Interestingly the growth potential of prolactinomas remains after menopause. Most tumors are invasive and present with high prolactin levels. They respond to medical treatment with dopamine agonists in terms of prolactin normalization, tumor shrinkage, and improvement in pituitary function. Treatment with dopamine agonists is usually long term. Reducing doses of cabergoline to the lowest that keeps prolactin levels normal prior to withdrawal is proposed to patients with macroprolactinomas who normalize prolactin after &
review-article	NEN494760	Targeted Alpha Particle Therapy for Neuroendocrine Tumours: The Next Generation of Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy Targeted Alpha Particle Therapy for Neuroendocrine Tumours: The Next Generation of Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are being seen increasingly frequently, but to date only complete surgical resection is curative. However, among the various therapeutic options, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy, linking a radioactive moiety to an octreotide derivative, has been shown to be highly efficacious and a well-tolerated therapy, improving progression-free survival and probably overall survival. Nevertheless, the current radionuclides in use are beta particle emitters with non-optimal radiobiological properties. A new generation of alpha particle-emitting radionuclides is being developed, with advantages in terms of very high energy and a short path length, which should theoretically show higher efficacy. We survey the current developments in this field, emphasising the exciting potential of this novel form of therapy for NETs.
review-article	NEN494889	Neuroendocrine-Metabolic Dysfunction and Sleep Disturbances in Neurodegenerative Disorders: Focus on Alzheimer’s Disease and Melatonin Neuroendocrine-Metabolic Dysfunction and Sleep Disturbances in Neurodegenerative Disorders: Focus on Alzheimer’s Disease and Melatonin Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is associated with altered eating behavior and metabolic disruption. Amyloid plaques and neurofilament tangles are observed in many hypothalamic nuclei from AD brains. Some of these areas (suprachiasmatic nuclei, lateral hypothalamic area) also play a role in the regulation of the sleep/wake cycle and may explain the comorbidity of eating and sleep disorders observed in AD patients. Inadequate sleep increases the neurodegenerative process, for example, the decrease of slow-wave sleep impairs clearance of β-amyloid peptide (Aβ) and tau protein from cerebral interstitial fluid. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) melatonin levels decrease even in preclinical stages (Braak-1 stage) when patients manifest no cognitive impairment, suggesting that reduction of melatonin in CSF may be an early marker (the cause for which is still unknown) of oncoming AD. Melatonin administration augments glymphatic clearance of Aβ and reduces generation and deposition of Aβ in transgenic animal models of AD. It may also set up a new equilibrium among hypothalamic feeding signals. While melatonin trials performed in the clinical phase of AD have failed to show or showed only modest positive effects on cognition, in the preclinical stage of dementia (minimal cognitive impairment) the effect of melatonin is demonstrable with significant improvement of sleep and quality of life. In this review, we discuss the main aspects of hypothalamic alterations in AD, the association between interrupted sleep and neurodegeneration, and the possible therapeutic effect of melatonin on these processes.
review-article	NEN494975	JAK2/STAT5 Pathway Mediates Prolactin-Induced Apoptosis of Lactotropes JAK2/STAT5 Pathway Mediates Prolactin-Induced Apoptosis of Lactotropes Prolactinomas are increasingly viewed as a “problem of signal transduction.” Consequently, the identification of factors and signaling pathways that control lactotrope cell turnover is needed in order to encourage new therapeutic developments. We have previously shown that prolactin (PRL) acts as a proapoptotic and antiproliferative factor on lactotropes, maintaining anterior pituitary cell homeostasis, which contrasts with the classical antiapoptotic and/or proliferative actions exerted by PRL in most other target tissues. We aimed to investigate the PRLR-triggered signaling pathways mediating these nonclassical effects of PRL in the pituitary. Our results suggest that (i) the PRLR/Jak2/STAT5 pathway is constitutively active in GH3 cells and contributes to PRL-induced apoptosis by increasing the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, (ii) PRL inhibits ERK1/2 and Akt phosphorylation, thereby contributing to its proapoptotic effect, and (iii) the PI3K/Akt pathway participates in the PRL-mediated control of lactotrope proliferation. We hypothesize that the alteration of PRL actions in lactotrope homeostasis due to the dysregulation of any of the mechanisms of actions described above may contribute to the pathogenesis of prolactinomas.
review-article	NEN495078	Astrocytes Mediate Protective Actions of Estrogenic Compounds after Traumatic Brain Injury Astrocytes Mediate Protective Actions of Estrogenic Compounds after Traumatic Brain Injury Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a serious public health problem. It may result in severe neurological disabilities and in a variety of cellular metabolic alterations for which available therapeutic strategies are limited. In the last decade, the use of estrogenic compounds, which activate protective mechanisms in astrocytes, has been explored as a potential experimental therapeutic approach. Previous works have suggested estradiol (E2) as a neuroprotective hormone that acts in the brain by binding to estrogen receptors (ERs). Several steroidal and nonsteroidal estrogenic compounds can imitate the effects of estradiol on ERs. These include hormonal estrogens, phytoestrogens and synthetic estrogens, such as selective ER modulators or tibolone. Current evidence of the role of astrocytes in mediating protective actions of estrogenic compounds after TBI is reviewed in this paper. We conclude that the use of estrogenic compounds to modulate astrocytic properties is a promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of TBI.
review-article	NEN495184	"Giant Prolactinomas Giant Prolactinomas &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Prolactin-secreting adenomas (prolactinomas) are the most common secreting adenomas of the pituitary. Microprolactinomas (diameter &lt;10 mm) are frequently diagnosed in women whereas macroprolactinomas (maximum diameter &gt;10 mm) are generally seen in men. Most macroprolactinomas measure between 10 and 40 mm. Giant prolactinomas, measuring &gt;40 mm, are rare, accounting for only 1-5% of all prolactinomas. Although generally benign, giant prolactinomas are aggressive and invasive, extending into the suprasellar region and also involve the cavernous sinuses. The optic chiasm is frequently involved which leads to visual damage and patients occasionally suffer from ophthalmoplegia. Long-term (usually lifetime) therapy with high-dose dopamine agonists (cabergoline or bromocriptine), together with pituitary surgery in some cases and radiotherapy if required, can achieve biochemical remission, tumor control, and clinical improvement in most patients.  "
research-article	NEN495209	Genistein Modifies Hamster Behavior and Expression of Inflammatory Factors following Subchronic Unpredictable Mild Stress Genistein Modifies Hamster Behavior and Expression of Inflammatory Factors following Subchronic Unpredictable Mild Stress Background: Previous studies have pointed to the protective role of genistein against stress adaptations although neuromolecular mechanisms are not yet fully known. With this work, we evaluated the influence of such a phytoestrogen on hamster behavioral and molecular activities following exposure to subchronic unpredictable mild stress. Methods: The motor behaviors of hamsters (n = 28) were analyzed using elevated plus maze (EPM) test, hole board (HB) test, and forced swim test (FST). In addition, neurodegeneration events were assessed with amino cupric silver stain, while expression variations of tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB), nuclear factor kappa-B1 (NF-κB1), and heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) mRNAs were highlighted in limbic neuronal fields via in situ hybridization. Results: Genistein accounted for increased motor performances in EPM and HB tests but reduced immobility during FST, which were correlated with diminished argyrophilic signals in some limbic neuronal fields. Contextually, upregulated Hsp70 and TrkB mRNAs occurred in hippocampal (HIP) and hypothalamic neuronal fields. Conversely, diminished NF-κB1 levels were mainly obtained in HIP. Conclusion: Hormonal neuroprotective properties of genistein corroborating anxiolytic and antidepressant role(s) through elevated expression levels of stress proteins and trophic factors may constitute novel therapeutic measures against emotional and stress-related motor performances.
research-article	NEN495774	"Patterns of recurrence after resection for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: who, when, and where? Patterns of recurrence after resection for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: who, when, and where? &lt;br&gt;Background/Aims Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (pan-NENs) represent an increasingly common indication for pancreatic resection, but there are few data regarding possible recurrence after surgery. Aim of the study is describing the frequency, timing, and patterns of recurrence after resection for pan-NENs with consequent implications for postoperative follow-up. Methods Retrospective analysis of pan-NEN resected between 1990 and 2015 at The Pancreas Institute, University of Verona Hospital Trust. Predictors of recurrence were assessed. Survival analysis was conducted using Kaplan-Maier and conditional survival (CS) methods. Results The cohort consisted of 487 patients with a median follow-up of 71 months. Recurrence developed in 12.3%: 54 (11.1%) liver metastases, 11 (2.3%) local recurrence, 10 (2.1%) nodal recurrence, and 8 (1.6%) metastases in other organs. Thirty-one (6.4%) died due to disease recurrence. Size &gt;21 mm, G3 grade, nodal metastasis, and vascular infiltration were independent predictors of overall recurrence. Recurrence occurred either during the first year of follow-up (n= 9), or after ten years (n= 4). CS analysis revealed that non-functioning G1 pan-NEN ≤20mm without nodal metastasis or vascular invasion, had a negligible risk of developing recurrence. In the present series, after 5 years of follow-up without developing recurrence, tumor recurrence occurred only in the form of liver metastases. Conclusions Recurrence of pan-NENs is rare and is predicted by tumor size, nodal metastasis, grading, and vascular invasion. Patients with G1 pan-NEN without nodal metastasis and vascular invasion may be considered cured by surgery. After 5 years without recurrence, follow-up should focus on excluding the development of liver metastases.&lt;br&gt;"
review-article	NEN495775	"Management of dopamine agonist-resistant prolactinoma Management of dopamine agonist-resistant prolactinoma &lt;br&gt;Dopamine agonists are usually very effective in the treatment of prolactinomas. Nonetheless, a subset of individuals does not respond satisfactorily to these agents and this resistance is characterized by failure to achieve normoprolactinaemia and a 30% or more reduction in maximal tumor diameter (in the case of macroprolactinoma) under maximally tolerated doses. Its overall prevalence is 20-30% for bromocriptine (BRC) and around 10% for cabergoline (CAB). The two main predictive factors are male gender and tumor invasiveness. The management of drug-resistant prolactinomas includes several options. Any BRC-resistant patient should be switched to CAB which will normalize prolactin in 80% of them. As long as adverse effects do not develop, dose escalation of CAB is reasonable, with the expectation that subsequent dose reduction will be possible. Echocardiographic monitoring is advised in such patients because of the potential association with cardiac valvular fibrosis. Also, maintaining maximal CAB doses at 3.5 mg/week may lead to progressive hormonal control in a significant proportion of patients. Complete resistance to CAB is infrequent. In a study of 122 patients with a macroprolactinoma, only 7 (6%) could not achieve control despite maximal CAB doses for more than 12 months. A large resistant prolactinoma is also an indication for transsphenoidal neurosurgery, aiming at a debulking which may improve postoperative medical control. For patients who harbor aggressive prolactinomas, radiotherapy may be considered. However, normal prolactinemia will eventually occur in only one third of patients after many years. Finally, temozolomide may be a therapeutic option in malignant/aggressive prolactinomas.  &lt;br&gt;"
research-article	NEN495806	Clinicopathological Profiling of Lung Carcinoids with a Ki67 Index &
review-article	NEN495889	Neurokinin 3 Receptor Antagonism: A Novel Treatment for Menopausal Hot Flushes Neurokinin 3 Receptor Antagonism: A Novel Treatment for Menopausal Hot Flushes Menopause is associated with significant symptomatic burden, with approximately two-thirds of postmenopausal women suffering from vasomotor symptoms, hot flushes, and night sweats. The mainstay of treatment for hot flushes continues to be hormone replacement therapy. However, as hormone replacement therapy is contraindicated in some cases, alternative, efficacious treatment options are also required. Hot flushes are thought to arise as a result of significant changes in the neuroendocrine circuitry underpinning the reproductive axis during menopause. This includes reduced circulating ovarian oestrogens, hypersecretion of gonadotropins, and increased expression of kisspeptin and neurokinin B (NKB) within the infundibular nucleus of the hypothalamus. In recent years, NKB, predominantly acting via the neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R), has emerged as an important player in the development of menopausal hot flushes. Antagonism of NK3R has garnered much interest as a novel therapeutic target to help ameliorate hot flush symptoms. Improvements in hot flush frequency, severity, and quality of life have been demonstrated in a number of clinical trials using novel NK3R antagonists in postmenopausal women. Within this review, we will explore the growing body of evidence supporting antagonism of NK3R as a potentially promising treatment for menopausal hot flushes.
review-article	NEN495916	Semaphorin Signaling in GnRH Neurons: From Development to Disease Semaphorin Signaling in GnRH Neurons: From Development to Disease In mammals, fertility critically depends on the pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) by scattered hypothalamic neurons (GnRH neurons). During development, GnRH neurons originate in the nasal placode and migrate first into the nasal compartment and then through the nasal/forebrain junction, before they reach their final position in the hypothalamus. This neurodevelopmental process, which has been extensively studied in mouse models, is regulated by a plethora of factors that might control GnRH neuron migration or survival as well as the fasciculation/targeting of the olfactory/vomeronasal axons along which the GnRH neurons migrate. Defects in GnRH neuron development or release can lead to isolated GnRH deficiency, with the underlying genetic causes still being partially unknown. Recently, semaphorins and their receptors neuropilins and plexins, a large family of molecules implicated in neuronal development and plasticity, are emerging as key regulators of GnRH neuron biology and deficiency. Specifically, semaphorins have been shown to play different roles in GnRH neuron biology by regulating migration and survival during embryonic development as well as secretion in adulthood.
research-article	NEN496391	"Chronic stress combined with fructose diet reduces hypothalamic insulin signaling and antioxidative defense in female rats Chronic stress combined with fructose diet reduces hypothalamic insulin signaling and antioxidative defense in female rats &lt;br&gt;Background: Increased fructose consumption and chronic exposure to stress have been associated with development of obesity and insulin resistance. In the hypothalamus, a crossroad of stress response and energy balance, insulin and glucocorticoids regulate expression of orexigenic neuropeptides – neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AgRP) and anorexigenic neuropeptides – proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART). Objectives: We investigated whether chronic stress and fructose diet disrupt these hormones’ signaling pathways and appetite control in the hypothalamus, contributing to development of insulin resistance and obesity. Potential role of hypothalamic inflammation and oxidative stress in development of insulin resistance was also analyzed. Methods: Insulin, glucocorticoid and leptin signaling, expression of orexigenic and anorexigenic neuropeptides, and antioxidative and inflammatory status in the whole hypothalamus of fructose-fed female rats exposed to unpredictable stress for 9 weeks were analyzed using qPCR and Western blot. Results: Chronic stress combined with fructose-enriched diet reduced protein content and stimulatory phosphorylation of Akt kinase, and elevated 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 and glucocorticoid receptor expression, while alterations in the appetite regulation (NPY, AgRP, POMC, CART, leptin receptor, and SOCS3 expression) were not observed. The expression of antioxidative defense enzymes (mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase 2, glutathione reductase and catalase) and proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα) was reduced. Conclusions: Our results underline the combination of long-term stress exposure and fructose overconsumption as more detrimental for hypothalamic function than either of the factors separately, as it enhanced glucocorticoid and impaired insulin signaling, antioxidative defense and inflammatory response of this homeostasis-regulating center.&lt;br&gt;"
review-article	NEN496392	Bridging the gap between BDNF and glucocorticoid effects on brain networks Bridging the gap between BDNF and glucocorticoid effects on brain networks Behavioral choices made by the brain during stress depend on glucocorticoid and BDNF signaling pathways acting in synchrony in the mesolimbic (reward) and corticolimbic (emotion) neural networks. Deregulated expression of BDNF and glucocorticoid receptors in brain valuation areas may compromise integration of signals. Glucocorticoid receptor phosphorylation upon BDNF signaling in neurons represents one mechanism underlying the integration of BDNF and glucocorticoid signals that when off balance may lay the foundation of maladaptations to stress. Here, we propose that BDNF signaling conditions glucocorticoid responses impacting neural plasticity in the mesocorticolimbic system. This provides a novel molecular framework for understanding how brain networks use BDNF and glucocorticoid signaling contingencies to forge receptive neuronal fields in temporal domains defined by behavioral experience, and in mood disorders.
systematic-review	NEO279992	"Postnatal Hydrocortisone for Preventing or Treating Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review Postnatal Hydrocortisone for Preventing or Treating Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review Background: Corticosteroids have been used widely after birth in preterm infants with respiratory failure; hydrocortisone may be preferable to other corticosteroids for this purpose. Objectives: To determine if postnatal hydrocortisone is useful to prevent or treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants. Methods: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of postnatal hydrocortisone therapy to prevent or treat BPD were sought. Data regarding clinical outcomes including mortality, BPD, death or BPD, complications during the primary hospitalisation, and long-term outcome were abstracted and analysed using RevMan 5. Results: Eight RCTs enrolling a total of 880 participants were eligible. In all trials treatment was started in the first week of life; there were no trials of treatment started in infants who were chronically ventilator-dependent after the first week of life with established or evolving BPD. A meta-analysis of the available trials demonstrated little evidence for a direct effect of hydrocortisone on the rates of BPD, mortality, or the combined outcome of BPD or mortality. Hydrocortisone in the doses used in these eight studies had few beneficial or harmful effects; the notable exception was an increase in gastrointestinal perforation. Conclusions: Postnatal hydrocortisone in the doses and regimens used in the reported trials has few beneficial or harmful effects and cannot be recommended for prevention of BPD. There are no randomised trials to substantiate the use of hydrocortisone in chronically ventilator-dependent infants with established or evolving BPD."
systematic-review	NEO286210	Dexamethasone Treatment in the First Week of Life for Preventing Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review Dexamethasone Treatment in the First Week of Life for Preventing Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review Background: Dexamethasone treatment started soon after birth is controversial. Objectives: To determine if postnatal dexamethasone treatment during the first week of life is beneficial in preventing bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants. Methods: Randomised controlled trials of postnatal dexamethasone therapy started in the first week of life in infants at risk of BPD were sought using methods of the Cochrane Collaboration. Data regarding clinical outcomes including mortality, BPD, death or BPD, complications during the primary hospitalisation, and long-term outcome were abstracted and analysed using RevMan 5. Results: 20 randomised controlled trials enrolling a total of 2,860 participants were eligible for inclusion. Meta-analysis of these trials demonstrated significant benefits as regards earlier extubation and decreased risks of BPD at both 28 days’ and 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age (PMA), death or BPD at 28 days’ and 36 weeks’ PMA, patent ductus arteriosus and severe retinopathy of prematurity. Gastrointestinal bleeding and intestinal perforation were important adverse effects, and the risks of hyperglycaemia and hypertension were also increased. In the seven trials (921 infants) that reported late outcomes, cerebral palsy and the combined outcome of death or cerebral palsy were significantly more common in those treated with dexamethasone. Conclusions: The benefits of early dexamethasone treatment (≤7 days) to prevent BPD do not outweigh the known or potential adverse effects of this treatment, and it cannot be recommended for routine clinical practice.
systematic-review	NEO286212	"Dexamethasone Treatment after the First Week of Life for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review Dexamethasone Treatment after the First Week of Life for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review Background: Dexamethasone has powerful anti-inflammatory effects and has been used to treat established bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), but it is uncertain whether the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment. Objectives: To determine the effect of late (&gt;7 days) postnatal dexamethasone treatment compared with control (placebo or nothing) to prevent or treat BPD in the preterm infant. Methods: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of late postnatal dexamethasone therapy to treat or prevent BPD were sought using methods of the Cochrane Collaboration. Data regarding clinical outcomes including mortality, BPD, death or BPD, complications during the primary hospitalisation, and long-term outcome were abstracted and analysed using RevMan 5. Results: 19 RCTs enrolling 1,345 participants were eligible for this review. Late dexamethasone treatment reduced neonatal mortality, but not later mortality. Benefits of late dexamethasone included reductions in failure to extubate, BPD and the combined outcome of death or BPD. There were clear short-term complications, including hyperglycaemia and hypertension, but not intestinal perforation. Trends of an increase in cerebral palsy or abnormal neurological examination were partly offset by a trend in the opposite direction in death before late follow-up. Conclusions: The benefits of late dexamethasone may not outweigh actual or potential adverse effects. Given the evidence of both benefits and harms of treatment, and the limitations of the evidence at present, it appears prudent to reserve the use of late dexamethasone to infants who cannot be weaned from mechanical ventilation, and to minimise the dose and duration of any course of treatment."
systematic-review	NEO323498	Biomarkers in Neonatal Posthemorrhagic Hydrocephalus Biomarkers in Neonatal Posthemorrhagic Hydrocephalus Posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH) is a rare but serious outcome among premature babies in the NICU, with consequences including mortality and severe neurodevelopmental disabilities. The causes of PHH are still not entirely understood, and its prevention and treatment are controversial. Various cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers have been studied in infants with PHH in order to recognize the causes, diagnose brain injury, and predict neurodevelopmental outcomes. This systematic review summarizes studies on biomarkers of extracellular matrix activity, fibrinolysis/coagulation, hypoxia/cell death, and inflammation in the cerebrospinal fluid of infants with PHH.
research-article	NEO346383	Volume Expansion Does Not Alter Cerebral Tissue Oxygen Extraction in Preterm Infants with Clinical Signs of Poor Perfusion Volume Expansion Does Not Alter Cerebral Tissue Oxygen Extraction in Preterm Infants with Clinical Signs of Poor Perfusion Background: Preterm infants with signs of poor perfusion are often treated with volume expansion, although evidence regarding its effect on cerebral perfusion is lacking. Moreover, the effect is questionable in preterm infants with an adequate cerebrovascular autoregulation (CAR). A useful measure to assess perfusion is cerebral fractional tissue oxygen extraction (cFTOE). Objectives: To assess the effect of volume expansion on cFTOE in preterm infants with signs of poor perfusion. Methods: In this observational study, we assessed cFTOE using near-infrared spectroscopy in preterm infants with signs of poor perfusion before, during and 1 h after volume expansion treatment. Simultaneously, we measured mean arterial blood pressure (MABP). We tested the effect of volume expansion on both cFTOE and MABP, using multi-level analyses. We intended to define a subgroup that responded to volume expansion with an increase in blood pressure and a decrease in cFTOE, suggesting absent CAR. Results: In 14 preterm infants, with a median gestational age of 26.7 weeks (25.0-28.7 weeks) and a median birth weight of 836 g (615-1,290 g), we found a small increase in MABP during (1.4 ± 1.4 mm Hg, p = 0.003) and after (1.8 ± 1.7 mm Hg, p = 0.001) volume expansion, but no change in cFTOE during (-0.19 ± 0.1% p = 0.44) or after (-0.53 ± 0.1% p = 0.34) volume expansion. We were unable to define a subgroup lacking CAR. Conclusions: Cerebral perfusion, as assessed by cFTOE, does not improve in preterm infants with signs of poor perfusion following volume expansion. In these infants, either CAR is present or volume expansion is inadequate to affect cFTOE.
research-article	NEO347103	Prenatal Hypoxia Downregulates the Expression of Pulmonary Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor and Its Receptors in Fetal Mice Prenatal Hypoxia Downregulates the Expression of Pulmonary Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor and Its Receptors in Fetal Mice Background: Previous reports showed that prenatal hypoxia delays the process of lung maturation. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptors were important for lung development. However, the role of VEGF and VEGF receptors in altered fetal lung development and maturation induced by prenatal hypoxia remains unknown. Objectives: To elucidate the role of VEGF and VEGF receptors in altered fetal lung development and maturation induced by prenatal hypoxia. Methods: Lung sections of control and maternal hypoxic fetal mice were used for the determination of lung development and total RNA isolated from lung homogenates were used for determination of the expression patterns of VEGF, Flt-1, Flk-1, hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α, HIF-2α, surfactant protein (SP)-A, SP-B, SP-C, and SP-D by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. Results: Prenatal hypoxia resulted in fetal mice body weight gain impairment, delayed fetal pulmonary aeration and maturation. Pulmonary SP-A, SP-B, SP-C, and SP-D mRNA were all decreased in the prenatal hypoxia group. In addition, we demonstrated that prenatal hypoxia inhibited the developmental increase of pulmonary HIF-1α and HIF-2α expression and resulted in decreasing VEGF and its receptors (Flt-1 and Flk-1) at the mRNA expression level and VEGF protein level in fetal lungs. These inhibitory effects persisted and progressed even when the dams were returned to air. Conclusions: We suggest that prenatal hypoxia insults, at least in late gestation, influence pulmonary VEGF and VEGF receptor expression through the down-regulation of HIF pathways and impair fetal lung growth and maturation.
research-article	NEO348251	"From a Regional Cohort of Extremely Low Birth Weight Infants: Cardiac Function at the Age of 7 Years From a Regional Cohort of Extremely Low Birth Weight Infants: Cardiac Function at the Age of 7 Years Background: The long-term impact of prematurity on cardiac structure and function has not yet been fully discovered. Objectives: To assess long-term cardiac complications in the regional cohort of extremely low birth weight (ELBW) children born in 2002-2004. Material and Methods: Eighty-one children born as ELBW infants (91% of the available cohort) with a median birth weight of 890 g (25-75th percentile: 760-950) were evaluated at the mean age of 6.7 years. The control group included 40 children born full-term, selected from one general practice in the district. Echocardiography and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure measurements (ABPM) were performed. The primary outcome variable was the presence of cardiac complications such as left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), diastolic dysfunction or systolic dysfunction. Results: LVH was diagnosed in 4/81 ELBW children and 2/40 control children (p = 1.0). Concentric remodeling was detected in 8 (10%) subjects from the ELBW group and in 2 (5%) from the control group (p = 0.49). There were no patients with diastolic or systolic dysfunction in either group. After having expressed the results of M-mode echocardiography as z-scores for body surface area (BSA), statistically significant differences were observed for right-ventricle dimension in diastole (-1.49 ± 1.25 vs. -0.31 ± 0.91; p &lt; 0.001), LV inner dimension in diastole (-0.53 ± 1.26 vs. 0.13 ± 0.94; p = 0.01) and left atrium (-0.93 ± 1.07 vs. -0.15 ± 1.02; p &lt; 0.01). Heart rate (HR) was significantly faster in ELBW children (92.9 ± 8.4 vs. 86.7 ± 7.4 bpm; p = 0.01 adjusted for BSA) and they also had significantly higher night-time blood pressure [mean (z-score): 1.15 vs. 0.2; p = 0.02] without nocturnal dipping (night-time dipping &lt;10%: 13 (16.7%) vs. 2 (5.2%), p = 0.13). Conclusions: No differences were found between the groups in the occurrence of cardiac complications. Ex-preterm ELBW children at age 6 may have a faster HR, smaller cardiac dimensions on echocardiography and higher nocturnal blood pressure. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown."
research-article	NEO348521	"Right Ventricular Performance in Preterm and Term Neonates: Reference Values of the Tricuspid Annular Peak Systolic Velocity Measured by Tissue Doppler Imaging Right Ventricular Performance in Preterm and Term Neonates: Reference Values of the Tricuspid Annular Peak Systolic Velocity Measured by Tissue Doppler Imaging Background: The tricuspid annular peak systolic velocity (S′) is an echocardiographic measurement to assess systolic right ventricular function in adults and children. Objective: We determined growth and birth weight-related changes of S′ to establish reference values in preterm and term neonates. Methods: A prospective study was conducted in a group of 290 preterm and term neonates (gestational age 26 + 0 to 40 + 6 weeks of gestation; birth weight 660-4,460 g). A correlation of S′ values with established tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) values was performed. Results: The S′ ranged from a mean of 4.5 cm/s (Z-score ± 2 SD: 3.6-5.5 cm/s) in preterm neonates in week 260-6 of gestation to 7.8 cm/s (Z-score ± 2 SD: 5.5-10.1 cm/s) in term neonates in week 400-6 of gestation. The S′ values increased from 26 to 40 weeks of gestation. S′ and week of gestation are strongly correlated: Pearson's correlation coefficient was 0.66 for week of gestation - S′ (p &lt; 0.001). A significant correlation was found between S′ and TAPSE values (r = 0.67; p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: Z-scores of S′ values were calculated and percentile charts were established to serve as reference data for preterm and term neonates with structurally normal hearts."
systematic-review	NEO353458	Nurse-to-Patient Ratios and Neonatal Outcomes: A Brief Systematic Review Nurse-to-Patient Ratios and Neonatal Outcomes: A Brief Systematic Review Background: Higher patient-to-nurse ratios and nursing workload are associated with increased mortality in the adult intensive care unit (ICU). Most neonatal ICUs (NICUs) in the United Kingdom do not meet national staffing recommendations. The impact of staffing on outcomes in the NICU is unknown. Objective: To determine how nurse-to-patient ratios or nursing workload affects outcomes in the NICU. Methods: Two authors (M.S., S.S.) searched PubMed, Medline, and EMBASE for eligible studies. Included studies reported on both the outcomes of infants admitted to a NICU and nurse-to-patient ratios or workload, and were published between 1/1990 and 4/2010 in any language. The primary outcome was mortality before discharge, relative to nurse-to-patient ratios. Secondary outcomes were intraventricular hemorrhage, daily weight gain, days on assisted ventilation, days on oxygen and nosocomial infection. Study quality was assessed with the STROBE checklist. Results: Seven studies met the inclusion criteria. Three reported on the same group of patients. Only four studies reported death before discharge from the NICU relative to nurse-to-patient ratios. Three reported an association between lower nurse-to-patient ratios and higher mortality, and one reported just the opposite. Because each study used a different definition of nurse staffing, a meta-analysis could not be performed. Conclusions: Nurse-to-patient ratios appear to affect outcomes of neonatal intensive care, but limitations of the existing literature prevent clear conclusions about optimal staffing strategies. Evidence-based standards for staffing could impact public policy and lead to improvements in patient safety and decreased rates of adverse outcomes. More research on this subject, including a standard and valid measure of nursing workload, is urgently needed.
systematic-review	NEO354891	"Probiotics for Preterm Neonates: What Will It Take to Change Clinical Practice? Probiotics for Preterm Neonates: What Will It Take to Change Clinical Practice? Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a major cause of mortality (25%) and morbidity including recurrent sepsis, dependence on parenteral nutrition, need for surgery, and survival with short bowel syndrome in preterm very low birth weight infants. Mortality (45-100%) and morbidity including the risk of long-term neurodevelopmental impairment are higher in extremely preterm infants needing surgery for NEC. Systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials (RCT) indicate that probiotics significantly reduce the risk of NEC (RR 0.39; 95% CI 0.29-0.52; p &lt; 0.00001) and all-cause mortality (RR 0.52; 95% CI 0.40-0.69; p &lt; 0.00001) while facilitating enteral feeds in preterm infants. At present, data from 25 RCT (∼5,000 neonates) and reports on routine use (∼3,000 neonates) indicates that significant adverse effects of probiotics are rare. Despite the robust evidence, there is still reluctance in incorporating routine probiotic prophylaxis in clinical practice. If the goal is to have zero tolerance for NEC, then probiotic prophylaxis must be adopted as soon as possible. Current gaps in knowledge can be addressed by continued research while providing routine probiotic supplementation. We believe that the concept of evidence-based practice of medicine has been stretched too far in this case. Trial sequential analysis has already shown that the evidence for probiotic supplementation was conclusive after 10 trials. Results of the ongoing trials are unlikely to change the conclusions of the systematic reviews significantly. Currently we are at trial number 25; how many more trials do we need? What will it take to change clinical practice?"
systematic-review	NEO357555	Relationship of Salivary and Plasma Cortisol Levels in Preterm Infants: Results of a Prospective Observational Study and Systematic Review of the Literature Relationship of Salivary and Plasma Cortisol Levels in Preterm Infants: Results of a Prospective Observational Study and Systematic Review of the Literature Background and Objectives: (1) To investigate the relationship of salivary and plasma cortisol levels in preterm infants with a focus on the usability of salivary cortisol in diagnostic work-up of infants at risk of adrenal insufficiency. (2) To perform a systematic review addressing this question. Methods:Clinical study: We conducted a prospective observational single-center study in preterm infants. We analyzed plasma and saliva cortisol concentrations by enzyme immunoassay. Correlation analysis was used to determine the relation between salivary and plasma cortisol levels and the agreement of the measurement methods was analyzed according to Bland-Altman. Systematic review: A systematic literature search (PubMed and Embase) on the relationship of salivary and plasma cortisol levels in neonates was performed in November 2012. Results:Clinical study: We enrolled 58 preterm infants (median (interquartile range) gestational age at birth was 31.4 (28.1-32.7) weeks, birth weight 1,340 (974-1,745) g, respectively). Correlation analyses revealed a relationship of plasma cortisol and salivary cortisol levels. Rank correlation coefficient was 0.6. Estimating plasma cortisol levels based on measured salivary cortisol levels showed poor agreement of the two methods for determining plasma cortisol levels (direct and via salivary cortisol). Sensitivity and specificity of salivary cortisol for the detection of adrenal insufficiency were 0.66 and 0.62, respectively. Systematic review: Six studies in preterm infants and term neonates depicting the correlation of salivary and plasma cortisol were identified with a range of saliva-plasma correlation coefficients from 0.44 to 0.83. Conclusions: Substitution of plasma cortisol by salivary cortisol determination cannot be recommended in preterm infants because of unsatisfactory agreement between methods.
meta-analysis	NEO363493	"Azithromycin and Other Macrolides for Prevention of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Azithromycin and Other Macrolides for Prevention of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background and Objective:Ureaplasma spp. infection has been associated with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants. Macrolides have been used for the treatment of Ureaplasma spp. infection, with an intention to prevent BPD. The objective of this meta-analysis is to evaluate the use of macrolides in the prevention of BPD in preterm infants. Methods: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, abstracts of the major pediatric society meetings and bibliographies of retrieved articles. We included randomized controlled trials assessing the effects of macrolides therapy on BPD in preterm infants. A random/fixed-effect model was used to synthesize predefined outcomes. Results: Six studies involving 469 preterm infants were eligible for the analysis. Macrolides when used prophylactically (4 studies) did not show significant reduction in BPD (risk ratio, RR, 0.88, 95% confidence interval, CI, 0.75-1.03), death (RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.79-1.01) or in the composite outcome of BPD/death. Similarly, there was no significant reduction in BPD (RR 0.64, 95% CI 0.31-1.31) or the composite outcome of BPD/death (RR 0.41, 95% CI 0.05-3.13), when macrolides were used in Ureaplasma-positive infants. However, prophylactic azithromycin therapy (3 studies) was associated with significant reduction in BPD (RR 0.83, 95% CI 0.71-0.97; number needed to treat, NNT, 10) and composite outcome of BPD/death (RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.77-0.97; NNT 10). Conclusion: This meta-analysis demonstrates prophylactic azithromycin therapy was associated with statistically significant reduction in BPD and the composite outcome of BPD/death in preterm infants. However, given the limited information on pharmacokinetics and potential harmful effects, further studies should be done before routine use of azithromycin in the neonatal population."
research-article	NEO369374	"Ketamine Attenuates the ACTH Response to Hypoxia in Late-Gestation Ovine Fetus Ketamine Attenuates the ACTH Response to Hypoxia in Late-Gestation Ovine Fetus Background: Ketamine, a noncompetitive N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, is a commonly used dissociative anesthetic in neonatology. We have proposed that ketamine reduces fetal stress responsiveness to stimuli that involve reduced oxygen supply to the fetal brain. Previously, we have shown that ketamine inhibits plasma ACTH levels in late-gestation fetal sheep subjected to brachiocephalic artery occlusion (BCO), an ischemic hypoxia model that might activate some of the same direct and reflex responses as hypoxia. Objectives: We performed the current study to test the hypothesis that ketamine pretreatment will reduce fetal ACTH responses to hypoxic hypoxia (HH). Methods: Fetal sheep were chronically catheterized at least 5 days prior to study. Ketamine (3 mg/kg) was administered intravenously to the fetus 10 min prior to normoxia or a period of hypoxia induced by administration of nitrogen gas to the maternal trachea for 30 min. Results: Hypoxia significantly increased both fetal ACTH and cortisol levels in both the control and ketamine groups (p &lt; 0.0005, interaction effect of time·stimulus in two-way ANOVA), and the ACTH response was blunted by ketamine (p &lt; 0.005). Conclusions: Ketamine reduced fetal ACTH responses to HH, possibly due to antagonism of the NMDA receptors in the fetal brain. Interestingly, in contrast to the responses to BCO, ACTH responses to HH were only partially inhibited, suggesting that multiple neurotransmitter pathways mediate the ACTH response to HH."
meta-analysis	NEO371539	Effect of Bronchodilators on Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 s in Preterm-Born Participants Aged 5 and Over: A Systematic Review Effect of Bronchodilators on Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 s in Preterm-Born Participants Aged 5 and Over: A Systematic Review Background and Objectives: Preterm-born participants are at risk of long-term deficits in percentage predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 s (%FEV1). Since it is unclear if these deficits respond to bronchodilators, we systematically reviewed the evidence for reversibility of deficits in %FEV1 by bronchodilators in preterm-born participants. Design: Studies reporting a change in %FEV1 in response to bronchodilator treatment in preterm-born participants at ≥5 years of age, with or without a term-born control group, were identified. The quality of studies was assessed by adapted tools. Due to considerable heterogeneity between studies, formal meta-analysis was not possible. Results: From 8,839 titles, 22 studies were identified after an updated search in May 2013. Twenty-one studies assessed the response to a single inhaled dose of a bronchodilator, and 1 study assessed longer-term effects. Most studies observed decreased %FEV1 in preterm-born participants compared with controls. Most studies observed improved %FEV1 after a single dose of bronchodilator, with the largest improvements noted in those with bronchopulmonary dysplasia, who had greater deficits of %FEV1 when compared with preterm and term controls. One long-term study investigated a 2-week terbutaline administration, but the initial FEV1 after a single dose did not show a change in %FEV1 of ≥15%, but 5/29 (17%) children had an increased %FEV1 of ≥10%. Conclusions: In this systematic review, disparate studies were identified. Although single doses of bronchodilators appear to improve the FEV1 in the short term, further studies are required to assess their longer-term benefits not only on airway obstruction, but also their effect on respiratory symptoms.
meta-analysis	NEO431281	"Platelet Counts and Patent Ductus Arteriosus in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Platelet Counts and Patent Ductus Arteriosus in Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Several cohort studies have shown an association between low platelet counts in the first day(s) of life and patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in preterm infants. However, these results have not been confirmed by other studies. Objective: To perform a meta-analysis of all the studies addressing the relationship between platelet counts in the first day(s) of life and PDA in preterm infants. Methods: PubMed/MEDLINE and EMBASE were searched from their inception until December 2014. Results from 11 cohort studies involving 3,479 preterm infants (gestational age &lt;32 weeks) were pooled using random-effects modeling. Results: Meta-analysis showed a significant positive association between PDA and platelet counts &lt;150 × 109/l [6 studies, risk ratio (RR) = 1.215, 95% CI: 1.027-1.436], between PDA and platelet counts &lt;100 × 109/l (5 studies, RR = 1.255, 95% CI: 1.034-1.525), and between significant PDA (SPDA) and platelet counts &lt;100 × 109/l (5 studies, RR = 1.254, 95% CI: 1.021-1.540). The association between SPDA and platelet counts &lt;150 × 109/l was not statistically significant (6 studies, RR = 1.289, 95% CI: 0.925-1.795). Pooled standard differences in mean platelet counts between infants with and without PDA/SPDA were not statistically different. Conclusion: This meta-analysis reveals a marginal but significant association between low platelet counts in the first day(s) of life and PDA/SPDA in very preterm infants. This association needs to be confirmed in prospective studies."
meta-analysis	NEO441274	"Prophylactic Probiotics for Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Prophylactic Probiotics for Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a major morbidity and cause of mortality in preterm neonates. Probiotics seem to have a beneficial role in preventing NEC, which is confirmed in meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials (RCTs). We therefore aimed to review and confirm the efficacy of probiotics in preterm neonates obtained in observational studies. Objective: To assess the effects of prophylactic probiotics in preterm infants. Methods: A meta-analysis was performed searching PubMed, EMBASE, CENTRAL (the Cochrane Library) and www.clinicaltrials.gov. Reference lists of reviews of RCTs were also searched. Included studies were observational studies that enrolled preterm infants &lt;37 weeks of gestational age. Trials were included if they administered any probiotics and measured at least one clinical outcome (e.g. NEC, all-cause mortality, sepsis or long-term development scores). Two authors extracted characteristics and outcomes from included studies. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used for quality assessment. A random-effects meta-analysis model was used, and heterogeneity was assessed by the I2 test. Results: We included 12 studies with 10,800 premature neonates (5,144 receiving prophylactic probiotics and 5,656 controls). The meta-analysis showed a significantly decreased incidence of NEC (risk ratio, RR = 0.55, 95% confidence interval, 95% CI, 0.39-0.78; p = 0.0006) and mortality (RR = 0.72, 95% CI, 0.61-0.85; p &lt; 0.0001). Sepsis did not differ significantly between the two groups (RR = 0.86, 95% CI, 0.74-1.00; p = 0.05). Conclusions: Probiotic supplementation reduces the risk of NEC and mortality in preterm infants. The effect sizes are similar to findings in meta-analyses of RCTs. However, the optimal strain, dose and timing need further investigation."
meta-analysis	NEO442195	Effect of Phototherapy on the Reliability of Transcutaneous Bilirubin Devices in Term and Near-Term Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effect of Phototherapy on the Reliability of Transcutaneous Bilirubin Devices in Term and Near-Term Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Transcutaneous bilirubin (TcB) devices are commonly used for screening of hyperbilirubinemia in term and near-term infants not exposed to phototherapy. However, the accuracy of TcB devices in infants exposed to phototherapy is unclear. Objectives: To conduct a systematic review of studies comparing TcB devices with total serum bilirubin (TSB) in infants receiving phototherapy or in the postphototherapy phase. Methods: MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, CINAHL and Scopus databases (from inception to May 8, 2014) were searched. Additional citations were identified from the bibliography of selected articles and from the abstracts of conference proceedings. The studies were included if they compared TcB results with TSB in term and near-term infants during phototherapy or after discontinuation of phototherapy. Two reviewers independently assessed studies for inclusion, and discrepancies were resolved with consensus. Risk of bias was assessed using the QUADAS-2 tool. Results: Fourteen studies were identified. The pooled estimates of correlation coefficients (r) during phototherapy were: covered sites 0.71 (95% CI 0.64-0.77, 11 studies), uncovered sites 0.65 (95% CI 0.55-0.74), 8 studies), forehead 0.70 (95% CI 0.64-0.75, 12 studies) and sternum 0.64 (95% CI 0.43-0.77, 5 studies). Two studies also provided results as Bland-Altman difference plots (mean TcB-TSB differences -29.2 and 30 µmol/l, respectively). The correlation coefficient improved marginally in the postphototherapy phase (r = 0.72, 95% CI 0.64-0.78, 4 studies). Conclusion: We found a moderate correlation between TcB and TSB during phototherapy with a marginal improvement in the postphototherapy phase. Further research is needed before the use of TcB devices can be recommended for these settings.
systematic-review	NEO443874	Inborn Errors of Metabolism That Cause Sudden Infant Death: A Systematic Review with Implications for Population Neonatal Screening Programmes Inborn Errors of Metabolism That Cause Sudden Infant Death: A Systematic Review with Implications for Population Neonatal Screening Programmes Background: Many inborn errors of metabolism (IEMs) may present as sudden infant death (SID). Nowadays, increasing numbers of patients with IEMs are identified pre-symptomatically by population neonatal bloodspot screening (NBS) programmes. However, some patients escape early detection because their symptoms and signs start before NBS test results become available, they even die even before the sample for NBS has been drawn or because there are IEMs which are not included in the NBS programmes. Objectives and Methods: This was a comprehensive systematic literature review to identify all IEMs associated with SID, including their treatability and detectability by NBS technologies. Reye syndrome (RS) was included in the search strategy because this condition can be considered a possible pre-stage of SID in a continuum of aggravating symptoms. Results: 43 IEMs were identified that were associated with SID and/or RS. Of these, (1) 26 can already present during the neonatal period, (2) treatment is available for at least 32, and (3) 26 can currently be identified by the analysis of acylcarnitines and amino acids in dried bloodspots (DBS). Conclusion: We advocate an extensive analysis of amino acids and acylcarnitines in blood/plasma/DBS and urine for all children who died suddenly and/or unexpectedly, including neonates in whom blood had not yet been drawn for the routine NBS test. The application of combined metabolite screening and DNA-sequencing techniques would facilitate fast identification and maximal diagnostic yield. This is important information for clinicians who need to maintain clinical awareness and decision-makers to improve population NBS programmes.
meta-analysis	NEO443875	"Newborn Resuscitation Training Programmes Reduce Early Neonatal Mortality Newborn Resuscitation Training Programmes Reduce Early Neonatal Mortality Background: Substantial health care resources are expended on standardised formal neonatal resuscitation training (SFNRT) programmes, but their effectiveness has not been proven. Objectives: To determine whether SFNRT programmes reduce neonatal mortality and morbidity, improve acquisition and retention of knowledge and skills, or change teamwork and resuscitation behaviour. Methods: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, PREMEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Web of Science and the Oxford Database of Perinatal Trials, ongoing trials and conference proceedings in April 2015, and included randomised or quasi-randomised trials that reported at least one of our specified outcomes. Results: SFNRT in low- and middle-income countries decreased early neonatal mortality [risk ratio (RR) 0.85 (95% CI 0.75-0.96)]; the number needed to treat for benefit [227 (95% CI 122-1,667; 3 studies, 66,162 participants, moderate-quality evidence)], and 28-day mortality [RR 0.55 (95% CI 0.33-0.91); 1 study, 3,355 participants, low-quality evidence]. Decreasing trends were noted for late neonatal mortality [RR 0.47 (95% CI 0.20-1.11)] and perinatal mortality [RR 0.94 (95% CI 0.87-1.00)], but there were no differences in fresh stillbirths [RR 1.05 (95% CI 0.93-1.20)]. Teamwork training with simulation increased the frequency of teamwork behaviour [mean difference (MD) 2.41 (95% CI 1.72-3.11)] and decreased resuscitation duration [MD -149.54 (95% CI -214.73 to -84.34); low-quality evidence, 2 studies, 130 participants]. Conclusions: SFNRT in low- and middle-income countries reduces early neonatal mortality, but its effects on birth asphyxia and neurodevelopmental outcomes remain uncertain. Follow-up studies suggest normal neurodevelopment in resuscitation survivors."
meta-analysis	NEO444075	"Meconium Evacuation for Facilitating Feed Tolerance in Preterm Neonates: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Meconium Evacuation for Facilitating Feed Tolerance in Preterm Neonates: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: A delayed passage of meconium is considered as a risk factor for feed intolerance in preterm neonates. Objectives: The aim of this study was to review the effects of different therapeutic agents for meconium evacuation on feed tolerance in preterm neonates. Methods: A systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of different therapeutic agents for meconium evacuation in preterm neonates (gestation &lt;32 weeks and/or birth weight &lt;1,500 g) using the Cochrane systematic review methodology was undertaken. Databases including Google Scholar were searched in January 2016. The primary outcome was the time to reach full feeds (TFF; ≥120 ml/kg feeds with stoppage of parenteral nutrition &gt;24 h). Secondary outcomes included necrotising enterocolitis (NEC), weight at discharge and adverse effects. The results were summarised as per the GRADE guidelines. Results: Six RCTs (2 each of glycerine suppository and enema, 1 normal saline enema and 1 oral osmotic contrast agent; n = 442) with a low or unclear risk of bias were included. The pooled estimate (random effects model) showed no reduction in TFF [mean difference (MD) -0.03, 95% CI -2.47, 2.41, p = 0.98; level of evidence: low]. No differences in NEC [risk ratio (RR) 1.71, 95% CI 0.63, 4.65, p = 0.30; level of evidence: low] and weight at discharge (MD -0.08, 95% CI -0.30, 0.15, p = 0.50; level of evidence: low) were found. The trial assessing oral osmotic contrast agents reported a trend towards a higher incidence of NEC ≥ stage II. There were no other adverse effects. Conclusion: Limited low-quality evidence indicates that prophylactic glycerine suppository, small volume glycerine/normal saline enema or oral osmotic contrast agents to evacuate meconium did not reduce TFF in preterm neonates. Large, well-designed trials are essential to study this clinically significant issue."
meta-analysis	NEO444913	Oxygen Saturation Targets for Extremely Preterm Infants after the NeOProM Trials Oxygen Saturation Targets for Extremely Preterm Infants after the NeOProM Trials Five randomized controlled trials comparing lower (85-89%) versus higher (91-95%) pulse oximeter saturation (SpO2) targets for extremely preterm infants have now been reported from the United States of America, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand. These trials included more than 4,800 infants, and they provide robust evidence to permit comparison of these target ranges and consider the next steps for clinicians and researchers. The lower SpO2 range was associated with a significant increase in the risk of death. There was no significant difference between the two target ranges in the rate of disability at 18-24 months, including blindness. A significant difference between groups in the risk of the composite primary outcome of death or disability in favour of the higher SpO2 range was mainly attributable to the difference between groups in the risk of death. The lower target range did not reduce bronchopulmonary dysplasia or severe visual impairment, but it did increase the risk of necrotizing enterocolitis requiring surgery or causing death. The trials provide no reason to prefer SpO2 targets below 90% and indicate the importance of more trials to see if a further survival advantage can be identified. The safety of targets above 95% has not been evaluated. The five trials were designed to be similar to facilitate an individual patient data meta-analysis, and this Neonatal Oxygen Prospective Meta-Analysis (NeOProM) may provide further insights.
systematic-review	NEO447960	"Evidence on Adrenaline Use in Resuscitation and Its Relevance to Newborn Infants: A Non-Systematic Review Evidence on Adrenaline Use in Resuscitation and Its Relevance to Newborn Infants: A Non-Systematic Review Aim: Guidelines for newborn resuscitation state that if the heart rate does not increase despite adequate ventilation and chest compressions, adrenaline administration should be considered. However, controversy exists around the safety and effectiveness of adrenaline in newborn resuscitation. The aim of this review was to summarise a selection of the current knowledge about adrenaline during resuscitation and evaluate its relevance to newborn infants. Methods: A search in PubMed, Embase, and Google Scholar until September 1, 2015, using search terms including adrenaline/epinephrine, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, death, severe brain injury, necrotizing enterocolitis, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and adrenaline versus vasopressin/placebo. Results: Adult data indicate that adrenaline improves the return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) but not survival to hospital discharge. Newborn animal studies reported that adrenaline might be needed to achieve ROSC. Intravenous administration (10-30 μg/kg) is recommended; however, if there is no intravenous access, a higher endotracheal dose (50-100 μg/kg) is needed. The safety and effectiveness of intraosseous adrenaline remain undetermined. Early and frequent dosing does not seem to be beneficial. In fact, negative hemodynamic effects have been observed, especially with doses ≥30 μg/kg intravenously. Little is known about adrenaline in birth asphyxia and in preterm infants, but observations indicate that hemodynamics and neurological outcomes may be impaired by adrenaline administration in these conditions. However, a causal relationship between adrenaline administration and outcomes cannot be established from the few available retrospective studies. Alternative vasoconstrictors have been investigated, but the evidence is scarce. Conclusion: More research is needed on the benefits and risks of adrenaline in asphyxia-induced bradycardia or cardiac arrest during perinatal transition."
systematic-review	NEO448941	Doxapram Treatment for Apnea of Prematurity: A Systematic Review Doxapram Treatment for Apnea of Prematurity: A Systematic Review Background: Apnea of prematurity (AOP) is a common complication of preterm birth, for which caffeine is the first treatment of choice. In case of persistent AOP, doxapram has been advocated as an additional therapy. Objective: To identify and appraise all existing evidence regarding efficacy and safety of doxapram use for AOP in infants born before 34 weeks of gestational age. Methods: All studies reporting on doxapram use for AOP were identified by searching electronic databases, references from relevant studies, and abstracts from the Societies for Pediatric Research. Two reviewers independently assessed study eligibility and quality, and extracted data on study design, patient characteristics, efficacy and safety outcomes. Results: The randomized controlled trials showed less apnea during doxapram treatment when compared to placebo, but no difference in treatment effect when compared to theophylline. No serious adverse effects were reported. We identified 28 observational studies consisting mainly of cohort studies and case series (n = 1,994). There was considerable heterogeneity in study design and quality. Most studies reported a positive effect of doxapram on apnea rate. A few studies reported on long-term outcomes with conflicting results. A range of possible doxapram-related short-term adverse effects were reported, sometimes associated with the use of higher doses. Conclusion: Based on the limited number of studies and level of evidence, no firm conclusions on the efficacy and safety of doxapram in preterm infants can be drawn. For this reason, routine use cannot be recommended. A large multicenter randomized controlled trial is urgently needed to provide more conclusive evidence.
systematic-review	NEO449240	The Effect of Head Positioning and Head Tilting on the Incidence of Intraventricular Hemorrhage in Very Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review The Effect of Head Positioning and Head Tilting on the Incidence of Intraventricular Hemorrhage in Very Preterm Infants: A Systematic Review Background: Despite advances in neonatal intensive care, germinal matrix-intraventricular hemorrhage (GMH-IVH) remains a frequent, serious complication of premature birth. Neutral head position and head tilting have been suggested to reduce the risk of GMH-IVH in preterm infants during the first 72 h of life. Objective: The aim of this study was to provide a systematic review of the effect of neutral head positioning and head tilting on the incidence of GMH-IVH in very preterm infants (gestational age ≤30 weeks). In addition, we reviewed their effect on cerebral hemodynamics and oxygenation. Methods: Literature was searched (June 2016) in the following electronic databases: CINAHL, Embase, Medline, SCOPUS, and several trial registers. Results: One underpowered trial studied the effect of head positioning on the incidence of GMH-IVH. This randomized controlled trial enrolled 48 preterm infants and found no effect on the occurrence of GMH-IVH. Three observational studies investigated the effect of head rotation and/or tilting on cerebral oxygenation in 68 preterm infants in total. Their results suggest that cerebral oxygenation is not significantly affected by changes in head positioning. The effect of head positioning and/or tilting on cerebral hemodynamics was described in 2 observational studies of 28 preterm infants and found no significant effect. Conclusions: There is insufficient evidence regarding the effect of head positioning and tilting on the incidence of GMH-IVH and cerebral hemodynamics and oxygenation in preterm infants. We recommend further research in this field, especially in extremely preterm and clinically unstable infants during the first postnatal days.
meta-analysis	NEO454668	The “Golden Age” of Probiotics: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized and Observational Studies in Preterm Infants The “Golden Age” of Probiotics: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized and Observational Studies in Preterm Infants Background: Over the last few years, probiotics have been one of the most studied interventions in neonatal medicine. Objectives: The aim of this work was to analyse all studies (randomized controlled trials, RCTs, and observational studies) assessing the use of probiotics in very low birth weight (VLBW) preterm infants. Search Methods: A systematic literature search was conducted using PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science. The data from RCTs and observational studies were pooled and analysed separately. Selection Criteria: RCTs and observational studies that enrolled VLBW infants with enteral administration of probiotics were considered. Extracted study data included probiotic characteristics and at least 1 clinical outcome (necrotizing enterocolitis [NEC], late-onset sepsis or all-cause mortality). Data Collection and Analysis: Forty-four studies were eligible for our review: 30 RCTs and 14 observational studies. Severe NEC rates (stage II or more) and all-cause mortality were reduced among the probiotic groups in both the RCTs (RR 0.57, 95% CI 0.47-0.70, and RR 0.77, 95% CI 0.65-0.92, respectively) and the observational studies (RR 0.51, 95% CI 0.37-0.70, and RR 0.71, 95% CI 0.62-0.81, respectively). Furthermore, there was a 12% reduction in the risk of sepsis in RCTs and a 19% reduction in observational studies. The meta-analysis of observational studies showed a reduction in the risk of NEC in extremely low birth weight infants. However, this was not statistically significant. Conclusions: This meta-analysis of RCT and observational studies found that the use of probiotics was beneficial for the prevention of severe NEC, late-onset sepsis, and all-cause mortality in VLBW infants.
meta-analysis	NEO481192	"Low- versus High-Dose and Early versus Late Parenteral Amino-Acid Administration in Very-Low-Birth-Weight Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Low- versus High-Dose and Early versus Late Parenteral Amino-Acid Administration in Very-Low-Birth-Weight Infants: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: Providing parenteral amino acids to very-low-birth-weight infants during the first weeks of life is critical for adequate growth and neurodevelopment. However, there is no consensus about what dose is appropriate or when to initiate supplementation. As a result, daily practice varies among neonatal intensive care units. The objective of our study was to determine the effects of early parenteral amino-acid supplementation (within 24 h of birth) versus later initiation and high dose (&gt;3.0 g/kg/day) versus a lower dose on growth and morbidities. Methods: A systematic review and meta-analysis of publications identified by searching PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases was conducted. Randomized controlled studies were eligible if information on growth was available. Results: The search identified 14 studies. No differences were observed in growth or morbidity after early or high-dose amino-acid supplementation, but for several outcomes, meta-analysis was not possible due to study heterogeneity. Initiation of amino acids within the first 24 h of life appeared to be safe and well tolerated, and leads more rapidly to a positive nitrogen balance. Conclusions: Administering a high dose (&gt;3.0 g/kg/day) or an early dose (≤24 h) of parenteral amino acids is safe and well tolerated but does not offer significant benefits on growth. Further large-scale randomized controlled trials in preterm infants are needed to study the effects of early and high-dose amino acids on growth and morbidity more consistently and extensively."
systematic-review	NEO481979	"The Laryngeal Mask Airway and Its Use in Neonatal Resuscitation: A Critical Review of Where We Are in 2017/2018 The Laryngeal Mask Airway and Its Use in Neonatal Resuscitation: A Critical Review of Where We Are in 2017/2018 Studies using videotape recordings and respiratory function monitoring have shown that both face mask (FM) application and endotracheal tube (ETT) placement represent a challenge for resuscitators. Hence, there is a strong need for devices that can largely be used independently of individual operator training levels, in order to ensure more reliable support in time-critical situations, such as neonatal resuscitation. The laryngeal mask airway device (LMA) has evolved as a potentially very valuable tool. We conducted a systematic review of studies evaluating the use of the LMA in neonatal resuscitation. An electronic literature search of large medical databases was performed to identify relevant publications on the use of an LMA during neonatal delivery room (DR) resuscitation. Following a rigorous systematic review, we identified a total of 7 randomized controlled trials with results indicating that initial respiratory management of newborn infants with an LMA is feasible for a defined subgroup of infants, but the evidence is still insufficient to recommend the LMA instead of FM ventilation in the DR. There is, in particular, a dearth of evidence of the use of LMA in neonates born before 34 weeks' gestational age or weighing &lt;1,500 g at birth. There were no reports on significant complications following the use of LMA; however, evidence is still limited regarding short- and long-term outcomes. We conclude that the limited currently available evidence suggests that the use of the LMA is a feasible and safe alternative to mask ventilation of late preterm and term infants in the DR. The potential use of LMA resuscitation, in particular for low-gestation and low-birth-weight infants, needs further study."
case-report	NEO493357	Pulseless Electrical Activity Complicating Neonatal Resuscitation Pulseless Electrical Activity Complicating Neonatal Resuscitation Background: The most recent guidelines by the Neonatal Resuscitation Program recommend use of electrocardiography monitoring during advanced resuscitation. Objective: We describe a case in whom detection of pulseless electrical activity (PEA) on electronic heart rate monitoring complicated delivery room management of an extremely low birth weight infant and offer suggestions for the identification of PEA for neonatal providers. Conclusion: Further prospective studies are needed to determine the true incidence of PEA in the delivery room setting as well as its prognosis in newborns.
research-article	NEO494103	Platelet-Neutrophil Interactions Are Lower in Cord Blood of Premature Newborns Platelet-Neutrophil Interactions Are Lower in Cord Blood of Premature Newborns Objective: To quantify platelet-neutrophil interaction by flow cytometry, in newborn cord blood, as a function of gestational age. Rationale: Little is known about platelet function markers in the newborn, and developmental variations in these markers are not well described. Methods: Cord blood samples were obtained from 64 newborns between 23 and 40 weeks’ gestation. The neonates were grouped into three categories: preterm (&
review-article	NEP311522	Effects of Angiotensin II on Renal Dopamine Metabolism: Synthesis, Release, Catabolism and Turnover Effects of Angiotensin II on Renal Dopamine Metabolism: Synthesis, Release, Catabolism and Turnover Background/Aims: Dopamine (DA) uptake inhibition in the renal cortex, elicited by angiotensin II (ANG II), is mediated by AT1 receptors and signals through the phospholipase C pathway and activation of protein kinase C and CaM-kinase II. By this indirect way, ANG II stimulates renal Na+,K+-ATPase activity through DA intracellular reduction. In the present work, we continued to study different aspects of renal DA metabolism in DA-ANG II interaction, such as DA synthesis, release, catabolism and turnover. Methods: ANG II effects on DA synthesis, release, catabolism and turnover were measured in samples from the outer renal cortex of Sprague-Dawley rats. Results: ANG II reduced renal aromatic acid decarboxylate activity without affecting basal secretion of DA or its KCl-induced release. Moreover, ANG II enhanced monoamine oxidase activity without altering catechol-o-methyl transferase activity and increased DA turnover. Conclusion: Current results as well as previous findings show that ANG II modifies DA metabolism in rat renal cortex by reducing DA uptake, decreasing DA synthesis enzyme activity and increasing monoamine oxidase activity, and DA turnover. Together, all these effects may reduce DA accumulation into renal cells and decrease its endogenous content and availability. This would prevent D1 receptor recruitment and stimulation, while diminishing DA inhibition of Na+,K+-ATPase activity and stimulating sodium reabsorption.
research-article	NIM346795	The Impact of Self-Reported Psychological Stress Levels on Changes to Peripheral Blood Immune Biomarkers in Recreational Marathon Runners during Training and Recovery The Impact of Self-Reported Psychological Stress Levels on Changes to Peripheral Blood Immune Biomarkers in Recreational Marathon Runners during Training and Recovery Objective: Marathon training is both physically and psychologically stressful, both of which can lead to altered immunity. The purpose of this study was to determine if the overall immunoregulatory changes associated with the physical stress of marathon training are affected by psychological stress. Methods: Nineteen recreational marathoners completed the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ), and had levels of T cell subpopulations and cytokine (IFN&
research-article	NIM369349	"Preliminary Evidence for a Compromised T-Cell Compartment in Maltreated Children with Depression and Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Preliminary Evidence for a Compromised T-Cell Compartment in Maltreated Children with Depression and Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Objective: Adverse childhood experiences, such as maltreatment, and affective disorders are associated with a proinflammatory state and/or variably compromised counts in lymphocyte subsets in adults. Animal models of social stress indicate that recent thymic emigrant cells (RTE), which maintain the T-cell compartment, are affected. Methods: In this study, we examined the association between lymphocyte subsets, and depression and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) among 16 maltreated children (aged 6-17 years) 1-3 years after the intervention by the Child Protection Team and among 14 healthy age-matched controls. The participants completed psychological assessment and had blood drawn for fluorescent-activated cell sorting analysis. Results: Among maltreated children and adolescents, depression was associated with lower counts of RTEs and T-helper cells after controlling for age. We found additional trends and large effect sizes with regard to the percentages of these cells, as well as for related lymphocyte subsets. Similar effects were found for PTSD, i.e. lower counts of naïve T cells, which was also supported by a trend for their percentage. Compared to controls, maltreated participants with a clinical level of depression had decreased percentages of RTEs, with a similar trend for PTSD. Conclusion: Limited by the nature of a pilot study and the small sample size, these preliminary findings of a compromised T-cell compartment related to psychiatric symptoms in maltreated children and adolescents need to be further studied; particularly the role of RTEs needs further evaluation."
research-article	NIM371492	"No Overlap among Serum GAD65, NMDAR and AQP4 Antibodies in Patients with Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorders No Overlap among Serum GAD65, NMDAR and AQP4 Antibodies in Patients with Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorders Objective: To evaluate whether serum glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor (NMDAR), and aquaporin-4 (AQP4) autoantibodies coexist in patients with neuromyelitis optica (NMO)/NMO spectrum disorders (NMOSD). Methods: Serum samples were collected from 98 patients with NMO/NMOSD. Serum GAD65, NMDAR and AQP4 antibodies were measured using a cell-based assay. Results: A total of 63 patients (64.3%) had myelitis and optic neuritis and satisfied the revised diagnostic criteria for NMO. Longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis was seen on spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging, showing continuous T2-weighted signal abnormalities in at least three vertebral segments in 26 patients (26.5%); 5 patients (5.1%) had recurrent optic neuritis, and 4 patients (4.1%) had brain syndromes with optic neuritis and myelitis. None of the 98 patients had diabetes, stiff-man syndrome, or epilepsy. All 98 patients tested positive for AQP4 antibody. No patients tested positive for GAD65 and NMDAR antibodies. Conclusions: In the present study, we found no simultaneous presence of serum GAD65, NMDAR and AQP4 antibodies in patients with NMO/NMOSD."
research-article	NIM444529	Intravitreous Injection of Interleukin-6 Leads to a Sprouting in the Retinotectal Pathway at Different Stages of Development Intravitreous Injection of Interleukin-6 Leads to a Sprouting in the Retinotectal Pathway at Different Stages of Development Objective: The development of retinotectal pathways form precise topographical maps is usually completed by the third postnatal week. Cytokines participate in the development and plasticity of the nervous system. We have previously shown that in vivo treatment with interleukin 2 disrupts the retinocollicular topographical order in early stages of development. Therefore, we decided to study the effect of a single intravitreous injection of IL-6 upon retinotectal circuitry in neonates and juvenile rats. Materials and Methods: Lister Hooded rats received an intravitreous injection of IL-6 (50 ng/ml) or vehicle (PBS) at either postnatal day (PND)10 or PND30 and the ipsilateral retinotectal pathway was evaluated 4 or 8 days later, respectively. Results: Our data showed that, at different stages of development, a single IL-6 intravitreous treatment did not produce an inflammatory response and increased retinal axon innervation throughout the visual layers of the superior colliculus. Conclusions: Taken together, our data provide the first evidence that a single intravitreous injection with IL-6 leads to sprouting in the subcortical visual connections and suggest that small changes in IL-6 levels might be sufficient to impair the correct neuronal circuitry fine-tuning during brain development.
research-article	NIM444531	A Follow-Up Study of 50 Chronic Hepatitis C Patients: Adiponectin as a Resilience Biomarker for Major Depression A Follow-Up Study of 50 Chronic Hepatitis C Patients: Adiponectin as a Resilience Biomarker for Major Depression Objective: Major depression (MD) is a condition associated with both hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and pegylated interferon (IFN)-α treatment. IFN induces a depressive syndrome that is associated with an inflammatory profile. We aimed to investigate whether there is any specific alteration in plasma biomarkers associated with MD. Methods: HCV-monoinfected patients, with and without IFN treatment, were followed up for 18 months and went through structured psychiatric evaluation. We assessed plasma levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and its soluble type 1 and type 2 receptors (sTNFR1 and sTNFR2, respectively), and adipokines (adiponectin, leptin and resistin) using ELISA. Results: Among the 50 patients included in the study, 14 were treated with IFN during the follow-up. Being older, not married, presenting higher body mass index, higher liver inflammatory activity, lower baseline adiponectin levels and use of IFN were associated with MD development. Higher levels of sTNFR1 during IFN treatment were associated with sustained virological response. The lack of a control group without HCV infection did not allow any assumption of a biomarker change exclusively due to the infection itself. Conclusion: Adiponectin may be a resilience biomarker for MD in HCV-infected patients.
review-article	NIM449427	Significant Role(s) of CXCL12 and the SDF-1 3′A Genetic Variant in the Pathogenesis of Multiple Sclerosis Significant Role(s) of CXCL12 and the SDF-1 3′A Genetic Variant in the Pathogenesis of Multiple Sclerosis Both cellular and molecular components of the immune system are among the substantial factors involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Accumulating evidence confirms that chemokines, as the main members of the immune system, play key roles in the regulation of immune responses. Immune system genetic parameters are believed to influence the onset of immune system-related diseases. Regarding the significant role of the CXCR4/CXCL12 axis in cell differentiation and survival and homing of hematopoietic progenitors to the bone marrow and regulation of neuronal progenitor cell migration in the central nervous system (CNS), genetic factors can cause an increased expression of CXCL12 and induce a vigorous immune response against CNS antigens in MS patients. Previous studies have indicated that the expression of CXCL12 could be affected by its polymorphisms at position +801 at the region of the CXCL12 3′A genetic variation. Finally, CXCL12 seems to be involved in the cellular part of the events that take place in the CNS, and therefore it could be considered as a target in MS therapies. Thus, this review was aimed to describe the recent progress in understanding the role of CXCL12 in MS, with an emphasis on CXCL12 serum concentrations and its gene polymorphism at position +801.
meta-analysis	NNE442827	Renal Effects and Carcinogenicity of Occupational Exposure to Uranium: A Meta-Analysis Renal Effects and Carcinogenicity of Occupational Exposure to Uranium: A Meta-Analysis Purpose: Uranium is a heavy metal with alpha radioactivity. We state the hypothesis that uranium exposure is harmful to human kidneys and carcinogenic to body tissues. Therefore, we review epidemiological studies from people with known long-lasting uranium exposure. Materials and Methods: Three meta-analyses are performed using clinical studies published in the PubMed database and applying RevMan 5.3 from the Cochrane Collaboration to calculate the outcome. The first two meta-analyses examine the standardized mortality ratio (SMR) and the standardized incidence ratio for any cancers of uranium workers who were operating in areas ranging from uranium processing to the assembly of final uranium products. The third meta-analysis evaluates the nephrotoxic risk in uranium workers as well as soldiers and of individuals with exposure to drinking water containing uranium. Results: Overall and contrasting to our hypothesis, the tumor risk is significantly lower for uranium workers than for control groups (SMR = 0.90 with a 95% confidence interval of 0.84 to 0.96). In addition and also contrasting to our hypothesis, the risk of nephrotoxicity is not increased either. This holds for both the incidence and the mortality due to renal cell carcinoma or due to acute kidney injury or chronic kidney disease. In contrast, a significantly better creatinine clearance is found for the uranium cohort as compared to the control groups (mean difference = 7.66 with a 95% confidence interval of 0.12 to 15.2). Conclusion: Our hypothesis that a chronic uranium exposure is associated with an increased risk of cancer mortality or of kidney failure is refuted by clinical data. The decreased risk may result from better medical surveillance of uranium workers.
review-article	NPS297734	Neuropsychobiological Aspects, Comorbidity Patterns and Dimensional Models in Borderline Personality Disorder Neuropsychobiological Aspects, Comorbidity Patterns and Dimensional Models in Borderline Personality Disorder Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a comorbid and disabling condition with high prevalence in psychiatric settings. The pathogenesis of BPD involves complex interactions among genetic, neurobiological and environmental factors, resulting in multiple core symptom domains such as emotional dysregulation, impulse dyscontrol, aggression, cognitive dysfunctions and dissociative states. Neurobiological studies show that symptoms and behaviors of BPD are partly associated with alterations in glutamatergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic systems. In addition, neuroimaging studies in BPD patients indicate differences in the volume and activity of specific brain regions related to emotion and impulse control, such as the prefrontal and cingulate cortex, amygdala and hippocampus. Neurobiological alterations are related to cognitive disturbances in patients with BPD and neuropsychological tests have shown abnormalities of memory, attention, language, and executive functions. The aim of the present review is to provide an updated overview of the main neuropsychobiological aspects of BPD and their relation to clinical symptoms, comorbidity patterns and dimensional models.
review-article	NPS297737	The Bern Psychopathology Scale for the Assessment of System-Specific Psychotic Symptoms The Bern Psychopathology Scale for the Assessment of System-Specific Psychotic Symptoms The translation from psychiatric core symptoms to brain functions and vice versa is a largely unresolved issue. In particular, the search for disorders of single brain regions explaining classical symptoms has not yielded the expected results. Based on the assumption that the psychopathology of psychosis is related to a functional imbalance of higher-order brain systems, the authors focused on three specific candidate brain circuitries, namely the language, and limbic and motor systems. These domains are of particular interest for understanding the disastrous communication breakdown during psychotic disorders. Core symptoms of psychosis were mapped on these domains by shaping their definitions in order to match the related brain functions. The resulting psychopathological assessment scale was tested for interrater reliability and internal consistency in a group of 168 psychotic patients. The items of the scale were reliable and a principal component analysis (PCA) was best explained by a solution resembling the three candidate systems. Based on the results, the scale was optimized as an instrument to identify patient subgroups characterized by a prevailing dysfunction of one or more of these systems. In conclusion, the scale is apt to distinguish symptom domains related to the activity of defined brain systems. PCA showed a certain degree of independence of the system-specific symptom clusters within the patient group, indicating relative subgroups of psychosis. The scale is understood as a research instrument to investigate psychoses based on a system-oriented approach. Possible immediate advantages in the clinical application of the understanding of psychoses related to system-specific symptom domains are also discussed.
review-article	NPS306592	An Investigation of Factors Associated with Depressive Symptoms among a Sample of Regular Ecstasy Consumers An Investigation of Factors Associated with Depressive Symptoms among a Sample of Regular Ecstasy Consumers Aims/Objectives: Methylenedioxymethamphetamine affects the central serotonergic system, and there is some evidence for an association between ecstasy use (drugs sold as methylenedioxymethamphetamine) and depression. The aim of the present study was to investigate the incidence of self-reported depression and associated help-seeking among a sample of regular ecstasy users. A further aim was to examine the correlates of depressive symptomatology in this population. Materials and Methods: 100 regular ecstasy consumers (at least monthly use) were interviewed as part of the Ecstasy and Related Drug Reporting System in Tasmania, Australia. Participants were also administered epidemiological measures of depression (Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale) and psychological distress (Kessler Psychological Distress Scale). Results: One quarter (23%) of participants self-reported recent experience of depression, a rate notably greater than the general population. However, only one third of these participants had attended a health professional for this issue. A range of drug use factors (e.g. frequency and quantity of ecstasy use, frequent cannabis or methamphetamine use, intravenous drug use, polydrug use, binge drug use, harmful alcohol use, and elevated psychological dependence scores for ecstasy and methamphetamine) were associated with high levels of depressive symptomatology. Conclusion: These findings are consistent with an association between depressive symptomatology and ecstasy and other drug use. Harm reduction strategies which target drug use factors such as those identified in this study may also aid in the reduction of the experience of depression. Considering the low levels of help-seeking among this population, improving awareness and access to information and treatment for depression may also be important.
meta-analysis	NPS364828	Peripheral Glutamate Levels in Schizophrenia: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Peripheral Glutamate Levels in Schizophrenia: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Background: Recent research attempting to develop novel medications has turned to glutamatergic signaling pathways to find effective treatments for symptom clusters of schizophrenia. This meta-analysis was undertaken to clarify whether a difference in peripheral glutamate levels exists between patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls. Methods: The electronic databases Ovid MEDLINE, PubMed, and PsycINFO were systematically searched up to April 2013. The search was limited to case-control studies of blood glutamate levels in schizophrenia written in English. The differences in glutamate levels were evaluated by calculating standardized mean differences (SMD). Results: We found ten studies that met the inclusion criteria for a total of 320 schizophrenia patients and 294 controls. The meta-analysis showed that peripheral glutamate levels in schizophrenia patients were significantly higher overall than in controls (SMD = 0.635, p = 0.004). However, a significant effect of the method used to measure glutamate concentrations was found (F = 7.36, p = 0.01) where fluorometric assay was associated with effect sizes in the opposite direction. Conclusion: A higher blood glutamate concentration was found in patients with schizophrenia. However, given the small sample size and methodological differences among studies, this result is not conclusive. More comprehensive research is needed to understand the relationship between glutamate levels in schizophrenia in the blood and the brain.
research-article	NPS369022	Diminished Nap Effects on Memory Consolidation Are Seen Under Oral Contraceptive Use Diminished Nap Effects on Memory Consolidation Are Seen Under Oral Contraceptive Use Many young females take exogenous hormones as oral contraceptive (OC), a condition rarely controlled for in studies on sleep and memory consolidation even though sex hormones influence consolidation. This study investigated the effects of OCs on sleep-related consolidation of a motor and declarative task, utilizing a daytime nap protocol. Fifteen healthy, young females taking OCs came to the sleep lab for three different conditions: nap with previous learning, wake with previous learning and nap without learning. They underwent each condition twice, once during the ‘pill-active' weeks and once during the ‘pill-free' week, resulting in 6 visits. In all conditions, participants showed a significant off-line consolidation effect, independent of pill week or nap/wake condition. There were no significant differences in sleep stage duration, spindle activity or spectral EEG frequency bands between naps with or without the learning condition. The present data showed a significant off-line enhancement in memory irrespective of potential beneficial effects of a nap. In comparison to previous studies, this may suggest that the use of OCs may enhance off-line memory consolidation in motor and verbal tasks per se. These results stress the importance to control for the use of OCs in studies focusing on memory performance.
research-article	NPS369026	"In School-Age Children Who Were Born Very Preterm Sleep Efficiency Is Associated with Cognitive Function In School-Age Children Who Were Born Very Preterm Sleep Efficiency Is Associated with Cognitive Function Aims: This study examined whether the association between sleep duration, as well as sleep continuity, and cognitive function differs between normally developing preterm children compared to full-term children during middle childhood. Methods: A total of 58 early preterm (&lt;32 weeks' gestation) and 55 full-term children, aged 6-10 years and enrolled in elementary school, were assessed on sleep duration, sleep continuity and cognitive function. We used in-home polysomnographic recordings of total sleep time, sleep efficiency and nocturnal awakenings. Cognitive tests included intelligence, arithmetic, selective attention, verbal memory, and visuospatial memory. Results: Preterm children showed poorer performance in intelligence, arithmetic, selective attention, and visuospatial memory (d = 0.38-0.79, p &lt; 0.05) and more objectively assessed nocturnal awakenings (d = 0.40, p = 0.03) than full-term children. Associations of sleep efficiency and cognitive functions (intelligence, arithmetic, selective attention, visuospatial memory) were positive and stronger for preterm children (β = 0.17-0.31, p &lt; 0.05), while they were nonsignificant for full-term children. Conclusion: Results confirm lower cognitive test scores and more nocturnal awakenings in normally developing early preterm children compared to full-term children. Furthermore, poor sleep efficiency may aggravate cognitive deficits, particularly in children who are more vulnerable due to premature birth."
systematic-review	NPS381351	The Effects of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation on Cognitive Performance in Treatment-Resistant Depression. A Systematic Review The Effects of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation on Cognitive Performance in Treatment-Resistant Depression. A Systematic Review Background: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a disabling illness associated with significant functional and psychosocial impairment. Although many psychopharmacological agents are currently available for its treatment, many MDD patients suffer from treatment-resistant depression (TRD). Methods: A systematic review of the current literature (Pubmed/Medline, Scopus and ScienceDirect search) has been conducted with the primary aim to investigate the role of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in improving neurocognition in patients with TRD. Studies were included according to the following criteria: (a) being an original paper in a peer-reviewed journal and (b) having analyzed the effect of rTMS on neurocognitive functioning in TRD. Results: The combined search strategy yielded a total of 91 articles, of which, after a complete analysis, 22 fulfilled our inclusion criteria. Based on the main findings, most of the selected studies suggested the existence of a trend towards improvements in the neurocognitive profile using rTMS. Negative findings have also been reported. However, most studies were limited by their small sample size or included mixed samples, or the adopted single-blind designs potentially biased the blinding of the study design. Conclusion: rTMS is a noninvasive brain stimulation that may be considered a valuable and promising technique for cognitive enhancement in TRD.
meta-analysis	NPS381352	Does BDNF Val66Met Polymorphism Confer Risk for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder? Does BDNF Val66Met Polymorphism Confer Risk for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder? Background: Evidence has indicated that BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) Val66Met genetic variant could be linked to the development of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, clinical observations studying the BDNF polymorphism and the risk of PTSD yielded contradictory results. In this meta-analysis we evaluated the association between BDNF Val66Met and PTSD risk. Method: Systematic searches in online databases retrieved 6 relevant publications. Different inherited models were utilized to perform the pooled analysis. Subgroup analyses and sensitive analyses based on Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) test results were also carried out. Results: Our study did not found a significant overall effect of BDNF Val66Met on the susceptibility to PTSD under various genetic models. In contrast, subgroup analyses suggested that the stress status of the control group, but not ethnicity, may influence the relationship of BDNF Val66Met with PTSD risk. After the exclusion of a study that was not in HWE, our conclusions remained unchanged during the influence analyses. Conclusions: This meta-analysis suggested no genetic association of BDNF Val66Met with vulnerability to PTSD. Further research studies are warranted to clarify the impact of BDNF variants on the occurrence of PTSD.
meta-analysis	NSG487038	Association between COMT Polymorphism Val158Met and Opioid Consumption in Patients with Postoperative Pain: A Meta-Analysis Association between COMT Polymorphism Val158Met and Opioid Consumption in Patients with Postoperative Pain: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Several factors influencing postoperative pain and the effect of opioid analgesics have been investigated on an individual level. The aim of this study was to clarify the impact of catecholamine-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene Val158Met on opioid consumption in postoperative patients. Methods: A systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature up to September 30, 2017, were performed by using PubMed, Cochrane Library, ISI Web of Science, and Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) database. The meta-analysis examined all studies involving the association between genetic polymorphisms of COMT Val158Met and opioid consumption during the acute postoperative period. Results: Of the 153 identified studies, 23 studies were retrieved for systematic review and 10 studies were retrieved for meta-analysis. However, it was impossible to conduct meta-analysis on the association between COMT Val158Met polymorphism and postoperative pain because of heterogeneity of the data. Overall, meta-analysis showed that COMT Val/Met carriers consumed less opioid for analgesia within the first 24 hours after surgery (SMD = 0.14, 95% CI = [0.03, 0.25], P = 0.01) but not within 48 hours (SMD = 0.14, 95% CI = [0.08, 0.36], P = 0.21). There was no significant difference in opioid consumption between Val/ Val and Met/Met patients. Conclusion: Patients with Val/Met but not Met/Met allele variant consumed less opioid, though larger and better-designed studies are required to obtain an exclusive conclusion about the correlation between postoperative pain and COMT Val158Met polymorphism.
review-article	OCL306139	"Acquired Resistance to Temozolomide in Glioma Cell Lines: Molecular Mechanisms and Potential Translational Applications Acquired Resistance to Temozolomide in Glioma Cell Lines: Molecular Mechanisms and Potential Translational Applications Treatment for glioblastoma multiforme includes the alkylating agent temozolomide combined with ionizing radiation. Persistent O6-guanine methylation by temozolomide in O6-methylguanine methyl transferase negative tumors causes cytotoxic lesions recognized by DNA mismatch repair, triggering apoptosis. Resistance (intrinsic or acquired) presents obstacles to successful temozolomide treatment, limiting drug efficacy and life expectancy. Two glioma cell lines, SNB19 and U373, sensitive to temozolomide (GI50 values 36 and 68 µM, respectively) were exposed to increasing temozolomide concentrations (1–100 µM). Variant cell lines (SNB19VR, U373VR) were generated that displayed acquired temozolomide resistance (GI50 values 280 and 289 µM, respectively). Cross-resistance to mitozolomide was observed in U373VR cells only. In clonogenic and MTT assays, methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) depletion using O6-benzylguanine sensitized U373VR cells to temozolomide, indicating the resistance mechanism involves MGMT re-expression. Indeed, Western blot analyses revealed MGMT protein in cell lysates. In SNB19VR cells, down-regulation of MSH6 message and protein expression may confer temozolomide tolerance. Inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (a key base excision repair (BER) enzyme) partially restored sensitivity, and DNA repair gene arrays demonstrated up-regulation (&gt;5-fold) of BER gene NTL1 in SNB19VR cells. In conclusion, we have developed two glioma cell lines whose distinct mechanisms of acquired resistance to temozolomide, involving expression of MGMT, or inactivation of DNA mismatch repair and recruitment of BER enzymes, are consistent with clinical observations. These cell lines provide valuable models for the development of strategies to combat temozolomide resistance."
case-report	OCL323492	Diagnosis and Management of Multifocal Gliomas Diagnosis and Management of Multifocal Gliomas Patients who present with multiple cerebral tumors are usually considered as having metastatic disease. If they have a history of a primary cancer in another site, the brain tumors are considered metastases and are usually managed with standard whole-brain radiotherapy. If no primary cancer site is known, a diagnostic work-up is performed, but if no primary site is found, they are still considered as brain metastases from an unknown primary site. Thus, such patients can either have brain biopsy (recommended) for further diagnostic consideration or, occasionally, they can be treated with whole-brain radiotherapy, depending on the age, performance status and wish of the patient. However, in some of these patients the multiple brain tumors represent multifocal glioma rather than metastases, resulting in incorrect treatment. In such cases, various MRI characteristics may be helpful in directing towards the correct diagnosis. Thus, patients who present with multiple brain tumors should not always be considered to have metastatic disease even if they have a previous diagnosis of systemic cancer, and multifocal glioma should be ruled out.
systematic-review	OCL341351	"Taxanes for Ovarian Cancer during Pregnancy: A Systematic Review Taxanes for Ovarian Cancer during Pregnancy: A Systematic Review Objective: Ovarian cancer in pregnancy is uncommon; however, this diagnosis adds complexity to cancer treatment recommendations. This is the first systematic review to synthesize all available data and evaluate the efficacy and safety of taxanes during pregnancy in ovarian cancer. Methods: This systematic review was performed in accordance with PRISMA guidelines. All studies that examined the efficacy and safety of taxanes administered during pregnancy in ovarian cancer, regardless of sample size, were considered eligible. Results: Overall, 8 articles (11 pregnancies, 12 newborns) were retrieved for paclitaxel and 1 for docetaxel (1 pregnancy, 1 newborn). In 92.31% of cases a healthy child was born, with a median follow-up of 20 months. The mean weight of the babies at delivery was 2,381 g. One study providing follow-up until the 11th year of age reported a case of attention deficit disorder. In 6 out of 8 case reports providing survival data, the mother was alive and disease free at the end of follow-up (ranging from 9.75 to 45 months). Conclusion: Taxanes may play a significant role in the treatment of ovarian cancer patients during the 2nd and 3rd trimesters. Before that, the risk of abortion or congenital anomalies is increased."
systematic-review	OCL346593	BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutations in the Ovarian Cancer Population across Race and Ethnicity: Special Reference to Asia BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutations in the Ovarian Cancer Population across Race and Ethnicity: Special Reference to Asia Objective: To evaluate the prevalence and spectrum of BRCA mutations among ovarian carcinoma patients of different races and ethnicity with special reference to Asia. Methods: A systematic review of the literature was undertaken to evaluate the prevalence of BRCA mutations among people belonging to different races. The electronic search strategy was developed specifically for the different databases concerned and via cross-referencing. Results: The frequency of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations ranged from 1.1 to 39.7 and from 0 to 13.9, respectively. BRCA1 mutations are more common among ovarian cancer cases than BRCA2 mutations, although the ratio of BRCA1 to BRCA2 varies between populations. The Swedish and Indian populations showed 12 and 7 times as many BRCA1 as BRCA2 mutations, respectively, whilst in a study from Iceland the ratio was 0.5:1. These wide-ranging estimates of the mutation prevalence suggest genetic heterogeneity between different populations. Conclusion: The ability to identify BRCA1/2 mutations was found to be successful in the clinical management of ovarian cancer. Given the implications for clinical care and for advances in cancer prevention, identifying racial difference in genetic or lifestyle factors, which may modify the cancer risk due to BRCA1/2 mutations, is a high priority for future research.
research-article	OCL369073	"Expression of Aquaporin-1, Aquaporin-3, and Aquaporin-5 Correlates with Nodal Metastasis in Colon Cancer Expression of Aquaporin-1, Aquaporin-3, and Aquaporin-5 Correlates with Nodal Metastasis in Colon Cancer Objectives: The clinical significance of aquaporin-1 (AQP1), aquaporin-3 (AQP3), and aquaporin-5 (AQP5) expression was analyzed in a large number of patients with colon cancer. Methods: AQP1, AQP3, and AQP5 expression was investigated based on the immunohistochemistry of tissue microarray specimens from 486 colon cancer patients who underwent curative surgery. Scores were given to the staining intensity and percentage of positive cells, and the staining score was defined as the sum of these scores then used to categorize the AQP expression as negative, weakly AQP-positive, or strongly AQP-positive. Results: A total of 298 (61.3%) patients were identified as strongly AQP1-positive (staining score ≥6), while 38 (7.8%) were strongly AQP3-positive and 145 (29.8%) were strongly AQP5-positive. The overexpression of AQP1, AQP3, and AQP5 was significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis in a multivariate logistic analysis (AQP1, p = 0.026; AQP3, p = 0.023; AQP5, p = 0.003). While the multivariate survival analysis, which included age, histology, TNM stage, and CEA level showed that the expression of AQP1, AQP3, and AQP5 had no effect on the overall survival and disease-free survival. Conclusions: The current study found a significant correlation between AQP1, AQP3, and AQP5 expression and lymph node metastasis in patients with surgically resected colon cancer."
meta-analysis	OCL369559	Treatment Efficacy Differences of Sorafenib for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials Treatment Efficacy Differences of Sorafenib for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials Objectives: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a heterogeneous disease. We explored whether any specific subgroups of patients may gain more survival benefits from sorafenib as the first-line therapy for advanced HCC. Methods: PubMed and the Cochrane library were searched for phase III clinical trials that compared sorafenib with other treatments as first-line therapy for advanced HCC. We retrieved data from the published articles and then calculated synthesized hazard ratios (HRs) of overall mortality for patients of different subgroups, using patients who received other treatments as the reference. Results: Four phase III clinical trials comparing sorafenib with other treatments were included in this study. The HRs were not significantly different between patients from various geographic regions (p = 0.183), patients with different Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance statuses (p = 0.699), or patients with different tumor involvement (p = 0.221). By contrast, the synthesized HR for hepatitis C virus (HCV)+ patients was 0.65 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.53-0.80], which was significantly lower than that for HCV- patients (0.87, 95% CI 0.79-0.96, p = 0.013). Conclusions: As the first-line therapy for advanced HCC, sorafenib might provide more survival benefits to HCV+ patients than to HCV- patients.
systematic-review	OCL433543	Occult Tumor Cells in Lymph Nodes of Patients with Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review on Their Prevalence and Predictive Role Occult Tumor Cells in Lymph Nodes of Patients with Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review on Their Prevalence and Predictive Role Background and Aims: The presence of lymph node (LN) metastasis is a key prognostic factor for gastric adenocarcinoma. However, even among patients without LN metastasis (N0), recurrence may occur. In some of these cases, occult tumor cells (OTC) are thought to play an important role. We aimed to determine the prevalence of OTC and its clinical relevance. Methods: We conducted a systematic review of studies in English published until September 2013 that addressed OTC prevalence and/or its clinical relevance. The studies were retrieved from the MEDLINE database. Results: We included 42 studies. The most frequently used methods for detecting OTC were immunohistochemical examination (IHC) and/or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with a wide range of markers. Using IHC for OTC detection, in patients and in LN, the prevalence varied from 9 to 88% and 0.4 to 42%, respectively. With PCR, it ranged from 17 to 46% in patients, and from 3 to 33% in LN. In the studies assessing the predictive role of OTC in gastric cancer recurrence (n = 24), 8 studies found no statistical association, while 18 concluded that OTC presence was associated with poorer prognosis. However, only 6 studies presented a significantly different 5-year survival rate between patients with and without LN micrometastasis. Conclusions: OTC seems to occur in gastric cancer patients with a variable prevalence, depending on the definition, methods and setting. The majority of the retrieved studies (75%) evaluating the predictive role of OTC conclude that its presence is associated with a worse prognosis.
research-article	OCL443506	"The Proportion of Signet Ring Cell Component in Patients with Localized Gastric Adenocarcinoma Correlates with the Degree of Response to Pre-Operative Chemoradiation The Proportion of Signet Ring Cell Component in Patients with Localized Gastric Adenocarcinoma Correlates with the Degree of Response to Pre-Operative Chemoradiation Background: Patients with localized gastric adenocarcinoma (LGAC), who get pre-operative therapy, have heterogeneous/unpredictable outcomes. Predictive clinical variables/biomarkers are not established. Methods: We analyzed 107 LGAC patients who had chemoradiation and surgery. LGACs were grouped for (1) presence/absence of signet ring cell histology (SRC) and (2) histologic grade: G2 or G3. %SRC was assessed (0, 1-10, 11-49, and 50-100%) and correlated with pathologic complete response (pathCR) or &lt;pathCR in the resected specimens. Results: Most patients were men (60%), had stage cIII LGAC (50%), and received chemotherapy before chemoradiation (93%). Most had G3 tumors (78%) and SRC (58%). Presence of SRC was associated with a lower rate of pathCR (11 vs. 36%, p = 0.004), and the association remained significant even with a low percentage of SRC (1-10%; p = 0.014). The higher the fraction of SRC, the lower was the probability of pathCR (p = 0.03). G3 and SRC led to a shorter overall survival (OS) (p = 0.046 and p = 0.038, respectively). yp stage independently prognosticated OS and recurrence-free survival (p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: Our novel findings suggest that LGACs with SRC are relatively chemoradiation resistant compared to LGACs without SRC. A higher fraction of SRC is associated with higher resistance. Upon validation/biomarker(s) evaluation, reporting of the fraction of SRC may be warranted."
systematic-review	OCL445977	"Calcium and Magnesium Infusions for the Prevention of Oxaliplatin-Induced Peripheral Neurotoxicity: A Systematic Review Calcium and Magnesium Infusions for the Prevention of Oxaliplatin-Induced Peripheral Neurotoxicity: A Systematic Review Objectives: The objective of this systematic review was to summarize the evidence of calcium and magnesium (CaMg) infusions in the prevention of oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy on the basis of prospective randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Methods: A systematic search included MEDLINE and CENTRAL, plus major oncology conferences, and identified RCTs evaluating CaMg. Efficacy endpoints were chronic neurotoxicity measured with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events grades and the oxaliplatin-specific scale (OSS). Data were synthesized using a random effects model. Results: A total of 5 trials with 694 evaluable patients were included in this analysis. The pooled result stated the outcome of the largest study included [Loprinzi et al.: J Clin Oncol 2014;32:997-1005], in which no differences were detected for the incidence of grade ≥2 neuropathy between those receiving CaMg infusions and controls [relative risk (RR) 0.81, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.60-1.11]. Only 2 studies (n = 52) quoted an incidence of chronic neurotoxicity for all grades (with a pooled RR of 0.95 and 95% CI 0.69-1.32), with substantial statistical heterogeneity. Three studies reported an actual incidence of the OSS but, due to the detected substantial statistical heterogeneity, the studies were not pooled. Conclusion: The results of our systematic review demonstrated the nonbeneficial effect of CaMg infusions for the prevention of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy."
review-article	OCL449388	"Dosimetric Improvements with a Novel Breast Stereotactic Radiotherapy Device for Delivery of Preoperative Partial-Breast Irradiation Dosimetric Improvements with a Novel Breast Stereotactic Radiotherapy Device for Delivery of Preoperative Partial-Breast Irradiation Objective: Partial-breast irradiation (PBI) with external-beam radiotherapy has produced higher than expected rates of fair-to-poor cosmesis. Worsened outcomes have been correlated with larger volumes of breast tissue exposed to radiation. A novel breast-specific stereotactic radiotherapy (BSRT) device (BSRTD) has been developed at our institution and has shown promise in delivering highly conformal dose distributions. We compared normal tissue sparing with this device with that achieved with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT)-PBI. Methods: Fifteen women previously treated with breast conservation therapy were enrolled on an institutional review board-approved protocol. Each of them underwent CT simulation in the prone position using the BSRTD-specific immobilization system. Simulated postoperative and preoperative treatment volumes were generated based on surgical bed/clip position. Blinded planners generated IMRT-PBI plans and BSRT plans for each set of volumes. These plans were compared based on clinically validated markers for cosmetic outcome and toxicity using a Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Results: The BSRT plans consistently reduced the volumes receiving each of several dose levels (Vx) to breast tissue, the chest wall, the lung, the heart, and the skin in both preoperative and postoperative settings (p &lt; 0.05). Preoperative BSRT yielded particularly dramatic improvements. Conclusion: The novel BSRTD has demonstrated significant dosimetric benefits over IMRT-PBI. Further investigation is currently proceeding through initial clinical trials."
case-report	OCL449416	Successful Delivery in a 39-Year-Old Patient with Anal Cancer after Fertility-Preserving Surgery Followed by Primary Chemoradiation and Low Anti-Mullerian Hormone Level Successful Delivery in a 39-Year-Old Patient with Anal Cancer after Fertility-Preserving Surgery Followed by Primary Chemoradiation and Low Anti-Mullerian Hormone Level Anal cancer was diagnosed in a 36-year-old nulliparous woman. Before chemoradiation was started, ovarian transposition and uterine fixation were performed in order to preserve capability for future parenthood. Despite of a low anti-Mullerian hormone level, IVF therapy was successful and resulted in a full-term delivery of a healthy baby by cesarean section. This is the first case report of successful pregnancy after full-dose pelvic radiation for anal cancer.
systematic-review	OCL454731	"Bladder Metastases from Lung Cancer: Clinical and Pathological Implications: A Systematic Review Bladder Metastases from Lung Cancer: Clinical and Pathological Implications: A Systematic Review Lung cancer is the tumor with the highest incidence in males worldwide and the most common cause of death from cancer overall; its high mortality is mostly due to its propensity to spread to other organs through lymphatic and blood vessels in spite of proper treatment. Bladder metastases from lung cancer are rare, with only 11 cases having been reported, all in recent years. This review aims to discuss some critical points regarding this uncommon condition, namely: (a) lung and bladder tumors share similar etiologic features; (b) almost all bladder metastases from lung cancer arise from lung adenocarcinomas; (c) cytology and superficial bladder biopsy may be falsely negative, since the neoplastic cells coming through the hematogenous route are typically located in the lamina propria and/or muscularis propria of the bladder wall; and (d) the differential diagnosis with primary bladder adenocarcinoma as well as primary and secondary small-cell carcinomas may be challenging. Though no definite conclusions can be drawn regarding treatment, we herein propose a practical algorithm to manage such patients based on available data."
meta-analysis	OCL455143	Is Beta-Blocker Use Beneficial in Breast Cancer? A Meta-Analysis Is Beta-Blocker Use Beneficial in Breast Cancer? A Meta-Analysis Objective: Preclinical studies have proved that beta-blocking agents inhibit several pathways for breast cancer progression and metastasis. We aimed to evaluate the association between beta-blocker use and prognosis of breast cancer. Methods: A systematic search for studies from MEDLINE and EMBASE (inception to March 2014) was performed using the keywords “breast cancer” and “beta-blocker.” In 2 groups of breast cancer patients (beta-blocker users and non-beta-blocker users), overall deaths (ODs), cancer-specific deaths (CSDs), and recurrences were compared. Results: Six studies including 18,118 patients were eligible for this analysis. Two studies with 3,139 patients were included in the analysis of ODs. The random-effects model showed no significant difference in ODs between beta-blocker users and non-beta-blocker users (odds ratio [OR] 0.87, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.50-1.52, p = 0.49). Four studies with 13,782 patients were included in the measurement of CSDs. The difference in CSDs between beta-blocker users and non-beta-blocker users was not significant using the fixed-effect model (OR 0.93, 95% CI 0.82-1.06, p = 0.29). Three studies with 3,923 patients were included in the calculation of recurrences. Overall, beta-blockers did not affect the incidence of recurrence (OR 0.70, 95% CI 0.25-1.95, p = 0.49). Conclusion: Beta-blockers were not beneficial regarding ODs, CSDs, or recurrences. Further studies are needed to evaluate the associations between the effects of beta-blockers and subtypes of breast cancer.
meta-analysis	OCL457904	"Relationship between Pulmonary Adverse Events and Everolimus Exposure in Japanese and Non-Japanese Patients: A Meta-Analysis of Oncology Trials Relationship between Pulmonary Adverse Events and Everolimus Exposure in Japanese and Non-Japanese Patients: A Meta-Analysis of Oncology Trials Aims: This meta-analysis explores the relationship between the everolimus minimum (Cmin) and maximum (Cmax) exposure and the risk for pulmonary adverse events (AEs) in Japanese versus non-Japanese patients. Methods: Patient-level data from patients treated with daily everolimus in advanced solid tumor trials were evaluated using a Cox regression model, stratified by cancer type or treatment arm, with log-transformed time-averaged Cmin or Cmax as a time-varying covariate. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to evaluate the relationship between pulmonary AEs and pharmacokinetic parameters. Results: Thirty studies were identified. In the Cmin population (n = 1,962), all-grade pulmonary AE incidence was significantly higher in Japanese versus non-Japanese patients (19.9 vs. 9.4%). Pharmacokinetic parameters were similar between Japanese and non-Japanese patients. A 2-fold increase in everolimus Cmin significantly increased the risk for the first any-grade pulmonary AE in Japanese (risk ratio: 1.824; 95% CI: 1.141-2.918) and non-Japanese patients (risk ratio: 1.406; 95% CI: 1.156-1.710). Conclusions: The risk for pulmonary AEs is related to everolimus exposure. Local monitoring and reporting differences might account for the significantly higher reported incidence of low-grade everolimus-associated pulmonary AEs in Japanese versus non-Japanese patients. Patients should be carefully monitored for early signs of pulmonary AEs, and appropriate medical management should be implemented."
systematic-review	OCL461584	Pulsed-Dose Rate Brachytherapy for the Treatment of Endometrial Cancer Pulsed-Dose Rate Brachytherapy for the Treatment of Endometrial Cancer Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most frequent gynecologic malignancy. The aim of this review is to outline clinical practice recommendations, to suggest a technical solution, and to advise doses selection for pulsed-dose rate (PDR) brachytherapy in EC. Electronic bibliographic databases, including PubMed, clinicaltrials.gov, and the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Meeting Library, were searched for articles in English. Clinical guidelines and systematic reviews were also considered. The appropriate therapeutic approach should consider risk factors for tumor relapse and PDR brachytherapy and have a convincing role in this multidisciplinary scenario. Performing PDR brachytherapy in EC requires robust training and experience.
review-article	OCL493348	Neuroendocrine Breast Carcinomas Share Prognostic Factors with Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors: A Putative Prognostic Role of Menin, p27, and SSTR-2A Neuroendocrine Breast Carcinomas Share Prognostic Factors with Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors: A Putative Prognostic Role of Menin, p27, and SSTR-2A Objectives: Due to the rarity of breast carcinomas with neuroendocrine features (NEBC), the knowledge on their biology is very limited but the identification of their biology and prognostic factors is essential to evaluate both pathogenesis and possible targeted treatment options. We assessed the expression of the well-characterized prognostic factors of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET) in NEBC. Methods: We assessed the immunohistochemical expression of neuron-specific enolase (NSE), thymidylate synthase (TS), p27, CD56, menin, and somatostatin receptor type 2A (SSTR-2A) in a series of 36 NEBC and 45 invasive ductal carcinomas (IDC). Results: Nuclear and cytoplasmic TS, nuclear and cytoplasmic NSE, and nuclear p27 had significant overexpression in NEBC compared with IDC (for all, p &
review-article	OCL495294	"Digital Follow-Up and the Perspective of Patient-Centered Care in Oncology: What’s the PROblem? Digital Follow-Up and the Perspective of Patient-Centered Care in Oncology: What’s the PROblem? There is accumulating evidence from randomized trials suggesting that digital patient-centered care allows a more reliable detection of tumour-related symptoms and adverse events – with a direct impact on overall survival. Consequently, a variety of unsynchronized approaches were kicked off to (electronically) measure patient-reported outcomes (PROs). Despite increasing evidence that PRO data are highly relevant for patient care, the data generated in these initial projects lack standardized processing pathways in order to impact clinical routine; therefore, potential future routine PRO assessments require adequate analysis, storage and processing to allow a robust, reproducible and reliable incorporation into routine clinical decision-making. Here, we discuss relevant challenges of digital follow-up that need to be tackled to render PRO data as relevant to physicians as laboratory or biomarker data."
systematic-review	OFA323076	"Behavioural Interventions for Obese Adults with Additional Risk Factors for Morbidity: Systematic Review of Effects on Behaviour, Weight and Disease Risk Factors Behavioural Interventions for Obese Adults with Additional Risk Factors for Morbidity: Systematic Review of Effects on Behaviour, Weight and Disease Risk Factors Background: Reducing obesity through effective behaviour change interventions is of key importance to prevent disabling and life-threatening conditions, particularly in individuals already at risk for morbidity. Purpose: To assess the effects of behavioural interventions for obese adults with additional risk factors for morbidity on behaviour, weight and disease risk factors. Methods: Systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs). Three electronic databases and three journals were searched for behavioural interventions (aimed at changing dietary intake and/or physical activity (PA)) for adults (mean BMI ≧30 kg/m2; mean age ≧40 years) with risk factors for morbidity, reporting follow-up data ≧12 weeks. Results: 44 RCTs met the inclusion criteria. Behavioural outcomes, weight loss, and cardiovascular disease risk factors showed consistent modest improvements over time, especially for interventions targeting both diet and PA. Conclusion: Behavioural interventions in at-risk populations showed positive effect tendencies on behaviour, weight, and disease risk factors. However, there is still ample room for improvement, and future research should focus on identifying the most effective means of inducing dietary and PA behaviour change in this vulnerable population."
systematic-review	OFA329450	The Correlates and Treatment of Obesity in Military Populations: A Systematic Review The Correlates and Treatment of Obesity in Military Populations: A Systematic Review Objective: The emergence of obesity as a distinct disease could have far reaching consequences for an organisation where optimum health and physical fitness are required for personnel to perform their occupational roles effectively. The objectives of this paper are to systematically review the literature concerning correlates and treatment of obesity in military populations. Methods: Through computerised searches of English language studies, 17 papers were identified (treatment (13), correlates (4)). Results: Successful treatment interventions incorporated exercise, healthy eating information, behavioural modification, self-monitoring, relapse prevention, and structured follow-up and were supported by trained personnel. Efficacy due to physical activity was underreported. Reduction in body fat rather than body weight was the most significant outcome. The major significant correlates of obesity were being enlisted personnel, male, ≧35 years of age, African-American/Hispanic ethnicity, and married (with spouse present). Conclusion: This systematic review highlights the deficit in knowledge concerning treatment and the lack of engagement in relation to the specific correlates of obesity in military populations.
systematic-review	OFA341560	Influence of Exclusive Resistance Training on Body Composition and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Overweight or Obese Children: A Systematic Review Influence of Exclusive Resistance Training on Body Composition and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Overweight or Obese Children: A Systematic Review Objective: Since the last decade, a significant increase in the prevalence of overweight and obesity among children has been reported. Low aerobic fitness and a low compliance with endurance sports in such children are theoretical reasons to favor the use of resistance training in intervention studies, even though positive effects of resistance training on morbidity without accompanying dietary modifications are a matter of debate. In this review we summarize the studies that have shown the isolated effect of resistance training on body composition and cardiovascular risk factors in overweight and obese children. Method: We systematically reviewed interventional studies that exclusively applied resistance training to overweight and obese 3- to 18-year-old children. Outcome measurements were body composition or cardiovascular risk factors. Results: Only six studies passed the inclusion criteria. All studies preferred an individually planned and supervised whole-body resistance training of moderate to submaximal intensity during treatment. The mean compliance was 84%. Four studies reported significant changes in body composition, with an increase in fat free mass and BMI, along with a decrease in fat mass. Three studies analyzed the effect of resistance training on cardiovascular risk factors, and only one study reported a significant decrease in systolic blood pressure. Conclusion: An individually planned and supervised whole-body resistance training of moderate to submaximal intensity in children seems to be safe and tends to show positive effects on body composition. Similar to interventions based on endurance exercise alone or in combination with dietary modifications, the effects on cardiovascular risk factors cannot be substantiated. In consequence, we suggest to substantiate the effect of resistance training on cardiovascular risk factors in overweight and obese children in upcoming randomized controlled trials with high case numbers, applying both resistance training only and resistance training in combination with dietary intervention to get knowledge about whether resistance training alone is effectual in the treatment of overweight and obesity in youth or if a combination of resistance training and dietary interventions is actually needed.
systematic-review	OFA343611	Socioeconomic Inequalities in Childhood Obesity in the United Kingdom: A Systematic Review of the Literature Socioeconomic Inequalities in Childhood Obesity in the United Kingdom: A Systematic Review of the Literature Childhood obesity is a major public health challenge worldwide. There is a growing literature documenting socioeconomic inequalities in childhood obesity risk. Here we draw inference from the literature about inequalities in childhood obesity risk in the UK. We summarize and appraise the extant peer-reviewed literature about socioeconomic inequalities in childhood obesity in the UK. Common area-level indices of socioeconomic position, including the Carstairs Deprivation Index, the Index of Multiple Deprivation and the Townsend Deprivation Index, as well as common household and individual-level metrics of childhood socioeconomic position, including head-of-household social class and maternal education, were generally inversely associated with childhood obesity in the UK. We summarize key methodological limitations to the extant literature and suggest avenues for future research.
systematic-review	OFA357176	Obesity and Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors among the Indigenous and Immigrant Pakistani Population: A Systematic Review Obesity and Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors among the Indigenous and Immigrant Pakistani Population: A Systematic Review Aim: The aim of this study was to systematically describe the gender and ethnic differences regarding the prevalence of general/central obesity and cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors such as diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia among the indigenous and immigrant Pakistani communities. Methods: The search engine used was PubMed, supplemented with regional data from the Medical Institutes of Pakistan. The focus was on the adult Pakistani population (18 years and older). Results: We found only 7 studies among the immigrant Pakistani community and 24 studies among the indigenous Pakistani community. The studies had limitations such as low participation rates and use of self-reported data. There is a higher prevalence of central obesity among women (42.2%) than among men (14.7%) (National Health Survey of Pakistan). Certain ethnicities such as Muhajir and Baluchis showed a higher prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors when compared to other ethnicities in the indigenous Pakistani population. The results also indicate that the prevalence of obesity is 10-20% higher among the immigrant Pakistanis than in the indigenous Pakistanis. Conclusion: The relatively high prevalence of obesity and associated CVD risk factors (especially in women) among both indigenous and immigrant Pakistani populations require the attention of the healthcare professionals and policy makers, both inside and outside Pakistan.
systematic-review	OFA363438	"Unbalanced Baseline in School-Based Interventions to Prevent Obesity: Adjustment Can Lead to Bias - a Systematic Review Unbalanced Baseline in School-Based Interventions to Prevent Obesity: Adjustment Can Lead to Bias - a Systematic Review Background/Aims: Cluster designs favor unbalanced baseline measures. The aim of the present study was to determine the frequency of unbalanced baseline BMI on school-based randomized controlled trials (RCT) aimed at obesity reduction and to evaluate the analysis strategies. We hypothesized that the adjustment of unbalanced baseline measures may explain the great discrepancy among studies. Methods: The source of data was the Medline database content from January 1995 until May 2012. Our search strategy combined key words related to school-based interventions with such related to weight and was not limited by language. The participants' ages were restricted to 6-18 years. Results: We identified 146 school-based studies on obesity prevention (or overweight or excessive weight change). Of the 146 studies, 36 were retained for the analysis after excluding reviews, feasibility studies, other outcomes, and repeated publications. 13 (35%) of the reviewed studies had statistically significant (p &lt; 0.05) unbalanced measures of BMI at baseline. 11 studies with BMI balanced at baseline adjusted for the baseline BMI, whereas no baseline adjustment was applied to the 5 unbalanced studies. Conclusion: Adjustment for the baseline BMI is frequently done in cluster randomized studies, and there is no standardization for this procedure. Thus, procedures that disentangle the effects of group, time and changes in time, such as mixed effects models, should be used as standard methods in school-based studies on the prevention of weight gain."
systematic-review	OFA381201	Aspects of Exercise before or after Bariatric Surgery: A Systematic Review Aspects of Exercise before or after Bariatric Surgery: A Systematic Review Background: Bariatric surgery has a considerable effect on weight loss. A positive relation of exercise and weight loss has been described before. However, the mode of exercise and its timing pre- or postoperatively or a combination remains unclear. Methods: A multi-database search was conducted. Identified articles were reviewed on description of exercise, timing around a bariatric intervention, and outcome. Methodological quality of the included studies was rated using the Physiotherapy Evidence Database scale. A Cohen's kappa score assessed the level of agreement. Outcome measurements were improvement of anthropometric and physical fitness variables, operation related complications, weight regain, and quality of life. Results: A total of 8 prospective studies were included. Four focused on training before and 4 on training after a bariatric procedure. Details of exercises varied from 45 min treadmill up to full descriptive programs. Supervision was frequently included. Significant improvement was encountered for biometric results physical fitness variables. Conclusion: In the majority of reports on exercising in a (future) bariatric population, positive effects on anthropometrics, cardiovascular risk factors and physical fitness were described. However, the results were not unanimous, with a wide range of exercise programs and perioperative timing, therefore hampering adequate practical guidance.
systematic-review	OFA442403	"A Systematic Review of the Application And Correlates of YFAS-Diagnosed ‘Food Addiction' in Humans: Are Eating-Related ‘Addictions' a Cause for Concern or Empty Concepts? A Systematic Review of the Application And Correlates of YFAS-Diagnosed ‘Food Addiction' in Humans: Are Eating-Related ‘Addictions' a Cause for Concern or Empty Concepts? The proposition of so-called ‘food addiction' (FA) in the scientific literature has stimulated a recent surge in research and debate. The concept of FA is controversial, and opinion is divided. Many of the findings depend upon the use of a single instrument called the Yale Food Addiction Scale (YFAS). This review systematically examined FA, as defined by the YFAS, reported in 40 experimental human studies published in or after 2009. The results indicated that much of the literature makes the supposition that food addiction is an accepted neurobiological disease, consistent with substance use disorders; an interpretation based on very limited data. This raises the question as to whether those individuals who meet the YFAS criteria for diagnosis are truly ‘addicted' to food or if they experience significant impairment to their psychological wellbeing and quality of life as would be expected in clinically recognised addictive disorders. At the present time, little research has investigated the extent to which a psychometric self-assessment of FA symptomatology can elucidate a harmful relationship with target foods in the diet. A positive YFAS diagnosis is usually positively associated with BMI and strongly linked with the presence of binge eating, but certain exceptions within the literature were revealed. Further clarification is required as to whether so-called FA is sufficiently different to existing conditions and traits to warrant classification as a distinctive disease phenotype rather than an expression of strong habits and preferences."
research-article	OFA442758	"Long-Term (7 Years) Follow-Up of Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass on Obese Adolescent Patients (&lt;18 Years) Long-Term (7 Years) Follow-Up of Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass on Obese Adolescent Patients (&lt;18 Years) Background: Few data are available about obesity surgery in adolescent patients. Objective: To assess long-term outcomes after laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) in patients &lt;18 years. Setting: University Hospital, Europe. Methods: A retrospective study of prospectively collected data of patients &lt;18 years (childhood group; ChG) (n = 28) treated by LRYGB of which 19 were available for follow-up between 2.4 and 10.2 years (mean 7.2 years). This group of patients was matched with an adult control group (AdG) of randomly chosen patients with similar characteristics who underwent LRYGB during the same period. The extensive survey included a telephonic questionnaire. Results: 19 (12 females) of the 28 patients (67.9%) were available for follow-up. Preoperatively, 3 had type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), 1 arterial hypertension, 5 dyslipidemia and 1 sleep apnea. In the ChG, average BMI after 7 years dropped from 38.9 kg/m2 preoperatively to 27.5 kg/m2. In the AdG, average BMI decreased from 39.4 to 27.1 kg/m2 in the same time period (nonsignificant between groups). One patient in the ChG needed a reoperation (internal hernia) versus 3 patients in the AdG (1 leak, 2 obstructions). All patients resolved their initial comorbidities. Two of 12 female patients in the ChG became pregnant 6 and 8 years after surgery, respectively, despite seemingly adequate oral contraception. Compliance with postoperative guidelines was good in 16/19 patients in ChG and in 14/18 patients in the AdG. Overall degree of satisfaction was high: 8.2/10 (SD 1.2, range 6-10) in the ChG and 8.9/10 (SD 1.7, range 5-10) in the AdG. Conclusion: LRYGB seems to be safe, provide good weight loss, and cure comorbidities in an adolescent population. Satisfaction degree is high. Inadvertent pregnancy despite conventional contraception is a possible issue."
systematic-review	OFA442764	Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia after Bariatric Surgery: Diagnosis and Management Experience from a Spanish Multicenter Registry Hyperinsulinemic Hypoglycemia after Bariatric Surgery: Diagnosis and Management Experience from a Spanish Multicenter Registry Background: Severe postprandial hypoglycemia after bariatric surgery is a rare but invalidating complication. Our aim was to describe the different tests performed for its diagnosis and their outcomes as well as the response to the prescribed pharmacological and surgical treatments. Methods: Multicenter, retrospective systematic review of cases with recurrent severe postprandial hypoglycemia. Results: Over 11 years of follow-up, 22 patients were identified. The test most used to provoke hypoglycemia was the oral glucose load test followed by the mixed meal test which was the least standardized test. With pharmacological treatment, 3 patients were symptom-free (with octreotide) and in 12 patients hypoglycemic episodes were attenuated. Seven patients had persistent hypoglycemic episodes and underwent surgery. Partial pancreatectomy was performed in 3 patients who had positive selective arterial calcium stimulation, and nesidioblastosis was confirmed in 2 patients. Reconversion to normal anatomy was performed in 3 patients, and 1 patient underwent a resection of the ‘candy cane' roux limb, with resolution of hypoglycemia in all cases. Conclusions: There is high heterogeneity in the evaluation and treatment options for postoperative hypoglycemia. In patients that do not respond to pharmacological treatment, reconstruction of gastrojejunal continuity may be the safest and most successful procedure.
systematic-review	OFA443687	Muscle Strength and Fitness in Pediatric Obesity: a Systematic Review from the European Childhood Obesity Group Muscle Strength and Fitness in Pediatric Obesity: a Systematic Review from the European Childhood Obesity Group The increasing prevalence of paediatric obesity and related metabolic complications has been mainly associated with lower aerobic fitness while less is known regarding potential musculoskeletal impairments. The purpose of the present systematic review was to report the evidence regarding muscular fitness in children and adolescents with obesity. A systematic article search was conducted between November 2014 and June 2015 using MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL psycINFO, SPORTDiscus and SocINDEX. Articles published in English and reporting results on muscle strength and muscular fitness in children and adolescents aged 6 to 18 years were eligible. Of 548 identified titles, 36 studies were included for analyses. While laboratory-based studies described higher absolute muscular fitness in youth with obesity compared with their lean peers, these differences are negated when corrected for body weight and lean mass, then supporting field-based investigations. All interventional studies reviewed led to improved muscular fitness in youth with obesity. Children and adolescents with obesity display impaired muscular fitness compared to healthy-weight peers, which seems mainly due to factors such as excessive body weight and increased inertia of the body. Our analysis also points out the lack of information regarding the role of age, maturation or sex in the current literature and reveals that routinely used field tests analysing overall daily muscular fitness in children with obesity provide satisfactory results when compared to laboratory-based data.
meta-analysis	OFA454837	"Body Dissatisfaction in Individuals with Obesity Compared to Normal-Weight Individuals: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Body Dissatisfaction in Individuals with Obesity Compared to Normal-Weight Individuals: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Body dissatisfaction has been identified as a psychological correlate of obesity that is related to disordered eating, poor self-esteem, and depression. However, not all individuals with obesity are equally vulnerable to these correlates, and ‘normative discontent' is present in individuals with normal weight, too. In this light, the complex relationship of body image and individual weight status seems like a worthwhile direction of research inquiry. As such, this review aims to systematically explore the degree of body dissatisfaction in individuals with obesity compared to normal-weight individuals. Methods: A systematic literature search was conducted. All quantitative studies of adult samples reporting results regarding differences in body dissatisfaction between individuals with normal weight and obesity were included. Results: 17 articles were found. Across studies, individuals with obesity reported higher body dissatisfaction than normal-weight individuals (questionnaires: d = 0.89, 95% CI = 0.63-1.16, p &lt; 0.001; silhouette scales: d = 1.41, 95% CI = 0.57-2.25, p &lt; 0.001). Meta-regression revealed a significant association of female gender and higher body dissatisfaction (b = 0.60, p = 0.007). Conclusion: The findings underline the severity of body dissatisfaction among individuals with obesity and especially among women. Future research recommendations are discussed."
systematic-review	OFA475716	Weight Bias: A Systematic Review of Characteristics and Psychometric Properties of Self-Report Questionnaires Weight Bias: A Systematic Review of Characteristics and Psychometric Properties of Self-Report Questionnaires Background: People living with overweight and obesity often experience weight-based stigmatization. Investigations of the prevalence and correlates of weight bias and evaluation of weight bias reduction interventions depend upon psychometrically-sound measurement. Our paper is the first to comprehensively evaluate the psychometric properties, use of people-first language within items, and suitability for use with various populations of available self-report measures of weight bias. Methods: We searched five electronic databases to identify English-language self-report questionnaires of weight bias. We rated each questionnaire's psychometric properties based on initial validation reports and subsequent use, and examined item language. Results: Our systematic review identified 40 original self-report questionnaires. Most questionnaires were brief, demonstrated adequate internal consistency, and tapped key cognitive and affective dimensions of weight bias such as stereotypes and blaming. Current psychometric evidence is incomplete for many questionnaires, particularly with regard to the properties of test-retest reliability, sensitivity to change as well as discriminant and structural validity. Most questionnaires were developed prior to debate surrounding terminology preferences, and do not employ people-first language in the items administered to participants. Conclusions: We provide information and recommendations for clinicians and researchers in selecting psychometrically sound measures of weight bias for various purposes and populations, and discuss future directions to improve measurement of this construct.
review-article	OFA477407	Postnatal Prevention of Childhood Obesity in Offspring Prenatally Exposed to Gestational Diabetes mellitus: Where Are We Now Postnatal Prevention of Childhood Obesity in Offspring Prenatally Exposed to Gestational Diabetes mellitus: Where Are We Now Children exposed to gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) in utero are at high risk of developing many health problems such as obesity. There is an urgent need to find new strategies to prevent obesity development among high-risk populations such as those children. Accordingly, the aim of this review was to summarize current knowledge on the postnatal prevention of childhood obesity in offspring born from mothers with GDM. Specifically, this review addresses the impact of breastfeeding, complementary feeding practices as well as dietary intake and physical activity during childhood on obesity risk of children exposed to GDM in utero. Furthermore, breast milk composition of diabetic mothers and its potential impact on growth is discussed. According to the available literature, breastfeeding may reduce obesity risk in children exposed to GDM in utero but a longer duration seems necessary to achieve its protective effect against obesity. Detailed analysis of breast milk composition of mothers with GDM will be necessary to fully understand the relationship between breastfeeding and obesity in this specific population. This review highlights the need for more studies addressing the impact of complementary feeding practices and lifestyle habits during childhood on obesity risk of children exposed to GDM in utero.
review-article	OFA477461	Obesity as a Conditioning Factor for High-Altitude Diseases Obesity as a Conditioning Factor for High-Altitude Diseases Obesity, a worldwide epidemic, has become a major health burden because it is usually accompanied by an increased risk for insulin resistance, diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, and even some kinds of cancer. It also results in associated increases in healthcare expenditures and labor and economic consequences. There are also other fields of medicine and biology where obesity or being overweight play a major role, such as high-altitude illnesses (acute mountain sickness, hypoxic pulmonary hypertension, and chronic mountain sickness), where an increasing relationship among these two morbid statuses has been demonstrated. This association could be rooted in the interactions between obesity-related metabolic alterations and critical ventilation impairments due to obesity, which would aggravate hypobaric hypoxia at high altitudes, leading to hypoxemia, which is a trigger for developing high-altitude diseases. This review examines the current literature to support the idea that obesity or overweight could be major conditioning factors at high altitude.
systematic-review	OFA479972	Effects of Intentional Weight Loss on Markers of Oxidative Stress, DNA Repair and Telomere Length - a Systematic Review Effects of Intentional Weight Loss on Markers of Oxidative Stress, DNA Repair and Telomere Length - a Systematic Review Background: Altered levels of markers of oxidative stress, DNA repair, and telomere integrity have been detected in obese individuals and may underlie the pathogenesis of obesity-related diseases. However, whether or not such effects are reversed by intentional weight loss has not been systematically reviewed. Methods: A literature search in PubMed/Medline identified 2,388 articles of which 21 studies (randomized controlled trial (RCT) (n = 10) and non-randomized intervention studies (n = 11)) were classified as testing the effects of intentional weight loss on i) oxidative stress (n = 15), ii) DNA repair (n = 2), and iii) telomere length (n = 4). Results: Across a broad range of intervention designs, diet-, exercise-, surgery-, balloon-induced weight loss regimens decreased oxidative stress measures. Studies investigating DNA repair capacity or telomere length as endpoints after weight loss were less common in number and yielded null or inconsistent results, respectively. Conclusion: While this systematic review supports a role for intentional weight loss in reducing obesity-associated oxidative stress, it is not clear whether the effects are primary outcomes or secondary to improvement in obesity-associated insulin resistance and/or chronic inflammation. Although the lack of effect of intentional weight loss on DNA repair capacity might be anticipated given that oxidative stress is reduced, additional studies are needed. The inconsistent effects of weight loss on telomere length or DNA repair suggest the need for a re-assessment of intervention designs and assay methodology to definitively address this topic.
systematic-review	OFA484566	"Sugar-Sweetened Beverages and Weight Gain in Children and Adults: A Systematic Review from 2013 to 2015 and a Comparison with Previous Studies Sugar-Sweetened Beverages and Weight Gain in Children and Adults: A Systematic Review from 2013 to 2015 and a Comparison with Previous Studies Objective: Partly inconsistent findings from previous reviews have fueled discussions on the impact of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) on obesity development. The aim was to systematically review the recent evidence in children and adults. Methods: Data were retrieved from the databases MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane library for the period January 2013 to October 2015. A systematic review of prospective cohort studies and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) relating SSBs to weight measures was conducted. Results: 30 publications met the inclusion criteria. Prospective cohort studies (96%; n = 26) showed a positive association between consumption of SSBs and weight/BMI in adults and children (n = 242,352), and only one cohort study in children showed no association. Findings from three RCTs in children demonstrated that SSB consumption had an effect on BMI/BMI z-score. The one RCT in adults showed no significant effect of the intervention. 63% of the studies were of good, 30% of medium quality, and none was funded by industry. Conclusion: Recent evidence suggests that SSB consumption is positively associated with or has an effect on obesity indices in children and adults. By combining the already published evidence with the new one, we conclude that public health policies should aim to reduce the consumption of SSBs and encourage healthy alternatives such as water."
systematic-review	OFA485838	Psychosocial Pretreatment Predictors of Weight Control: A Systematic Review Update Psychosocial Pretreatment Predictors of Weight Control: A Systematic Review Update Objective: Systematically identifying pretreatment characteristics that predict successful weight management is important to improve intervention efficacy and clinical practice. This study provides a comprehensive update of a 2005 review on pretreatment predictors of successful weight management. Methods: Results of 37 recent original studies from peer-reviewed journals were merged with the results from the 2005 review. A critical appraisal of the 66 studies included was provided, and meta-analyses were performed when feasible. Results: Fewer previous weight loss attempts were the most consistent pretreatment predictor of successful weight management, although with a small effect size. Importantly, several variables were identified as non-significant predictors of weight loss, showing trivial effects (e.g., eating self-efficacy). Many psychosocial factors remain too little studied to allow reliable conclusions regarding their predictive value. Conclusion: Previous dieting attempts were identified as the soundest predictor of successful weight management. Several factors, previously considered barriers to successful weight management and now identified as non-predictors, require more investigation given the limitations identified in this review. Importantly, due to a comparably thin empirical basis for many predictors, further research is essential to move the field forward. Implications of the current state of research and necessary steps to improve intervention efficacy and clinical practice are discussed
research-article	OFA493533	"Cortisol Stress Reactivity to the Trier Social Stress Test in Obese Adults Cortisol Stress Reactivity to the Trier Social Stress Test in Obese Adults Objective: Approximately 600 million adults worldwide suffer from obesity. In addition to individual’s eating behavior and lack of physical activity in the development of obesity and overweight, psychosocial stress as well as hormonal stress reactivity must also be considered as important contributing factors. In the current study we compared the cortisol stress response pathway in a psychosocial stress induction (Trier Social Stress Test; TSST) with obese individuals and normal-weight controls. Method: 32 obese individuals (17 females; mean age = 33.94 years, SD = 11.31 years) and 32 normal-weight controls (17 females; mean age = 29.09 years, SD = 10.46 years) underwent the TSST. The salivary cortisol responses and three appraisal questionnaires (Primary Appraisal Secondary Appraisal, Visual Analogue Scale, Trier Inventory for Chronic Stress) were measured. Results: After stress induction, there was a significant main group difference between the obese individuals and the normal-weight controls for cortisol, with lower baseline and post-stress cortisol levels in the obese individuals. Nevertheless, the obese individuals as well as the normal-weight controls showed no significant difference in the self-reported assessment of the stress condition but some significant differences in the cognitive appraisal of the TSST. Conclusion: In conclusion, the induction of psychosocial stress showed differences in the cortisol patterns between the obese individuals and the normal-weight controls. Furthermore, the present data suggest that obesity leads to lower cortisol activity, which may indicate alterations in the Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrencortical (HPA) axis."
research-article	OFA494295	Effects of Weight Loss on Glutathione Peroxidase 3 Serum Concentrations and Adipose Tissue Expression in Human Obesity Effects of Weight Loss on Glutathione Peroxidase 3 Serum Concentrations and Adipose Tissue Expression in Human Obesity Background/Aims: Altered expression and circulating levels of glutathione peroxidase 3 (GPX3) have been observed in obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) across species. Here, we investigate whether GPX3 serum concentrations and adipose tissue (AT) GPX3 mRNA expression are related to obesity and weight loss. Methods: GPX3 serum concentration was measured in 630 individuals, including a subgroup (n = 293) for which omental and subcutaneous (SC) GPX3 mRNA expression has been analyzed. GPX3 analyses include three interventions: 6 months after bariatric surgery (n = 80) or combined exercise/hypocaloric diet (n = 20) or two-step bariatric surgery (n = 24) studies. Results: Bariatric surgery-induced weight loss (–25.8 ± 8.4%), but not a moderate weight reduction of –8.8 ± 6.5% was associated with significantly reduced GPX3 serum concentrations. GPX3 mRNA is significantly higher expressed in AT from individuals with normal glucose metabolism compared to T2D patients. SC AT GPX3 expression is significantly higher in lean compared to obese as well as in insulin-sensitive compared insulin-resistant individuals with obesity. Weight loss after bariatric surgery causes a significant increase in SC AT GPX3 expression. AT GPX3 expression significantly correlates with age, BMI, fat distribution, insulin sensitivity (only SC AT), but not with circulating GPX3. Conclusion: Our data support the notion that SC AT GPX3 expression is associated with obesity, fat distribution and related to whole body insulin resistance.
systematic-review	ONK277142	Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy in Breast Cancer: A Systematic Review Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy in Breast Cancer: A Systematic Review Lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymphadenectomy have become an important tool for axillary lymph node staging in women with early-stage breast cancer. Many issues such as indications, usefulness, or best method of performing a sentinel node biopsy need to be addressed. Multiple studies now confirm that sentinel lymphadenectomy accurately stages the axilla and is associated with less morbidity than axillary dissection. Blue dye, radiocolloid, or both can be used to identify the sentinel node, and several injection techniques may be used successfully. Many patient factors previously thought to affect accuracy of the procedure have now been shown to be of limited significance. This paper&
review-article	ONK290661	Donor-Derived Solid Malignancies after Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Donor-Derived Solid Malignancies after Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is considered to be a potentially therapeutic strategy for various hematopoietic benign diseases and malignancies. The growing number of reports on long-term survivors after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation reveals the major merits of this strategy. However, such cohorts remain at high risk of potential late complications, including the development of secondary solid malignancies. An increasing number of cases of secondary malignancies originated from recipients, donors, or unknown sources has been reported. In this review, we focus on latest clinical evidence of donor-derived solid malignancies after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, postulate related potential mechanisms, and further address novel indications as well as feasible therapeutic and preventive perspectives.
research-article	ONK350307	Online Information on Complementary and Alternative Medicine for Cancer Patients: Evidence-Based Recommendations Online Information on Complementary and Alternative Medicine for Cancer Patients: Evidence-Based Recommendations Background: Many cancer patients use complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Most websites offering online information on CAM are not helpful for them. Methods: We extracted decisive elements for online information on CAM by analyzing the literature on the information needs of cancer patients and on counseling cancer patients on CAM. Results: Key issues for online information on CAM are the qualification of the authors, transparency and accountability of the information, description of the aims, a scientific approach, description of treatment alternatives, support for the patient-physician relationship, individualized information, a summary of the information, disclosure of funding, and the privacy policy. Conclusions: The communicative challenge will be to convey information without destroying hope and motivation. We suggest that CAM topics should be integrated into broader information provided on cancer (etiology, conventional treatment). By also providing information for physicians, such a website could promote shared decision-making. Online information will gain the status of independent expert knowledge if provided by a well-known scientific organization as, e.g., a national cancer society.
systematic-review	ONK353598	"Fertility-Sparing Surgery in Ovarian Cancer: A Systematic Review Fertility-Sparing Surgery in Ovarian Cancer: A Systematic Review Background: Ovarian cancer is rarely diagnosed in women of reproductive age; however, this coincidence seems to increase due to changes in lifestyle. Available evidence on the prognostic impact of fertility-sparing surgery (FSS) is sparse, and there is an emerging need to consolidate such evidence. Materials and Methods: Systematic review of the literature, including testing for heterogeneity and meta-analytical odds ratio (OR) calculations. Results: 15 studies comprising 913 patients met the inclusion criteria for this review. Out of the 913 patients undergoing FSS, 11.4% developed recurrence during observation. Stage IB/C tumors were nearly twice as likely to recur as stage IA tumors (OR 1.72, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.12-2.64, p &lt; 0.05), and the risk of recurrence was 4 times higher in G2/3 compared to G1 tumors (4.26, 95% CI 2.31-7.86, p &lt; 0.0001; and stage IC/G2/3 vs. stage IC/G1: OR 2.04, 95% CI 0.86-4.85, p &gt; 0.05). A non-significant risk elevation was attributed to stage IC/G1 compared to stage IA/G1 (OR 1.48, 95% CI 0.66-3.16, p &gt; 0.05). Conclusions: FSS with unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is only advisable for unilateral grade 1 tumors. Further studies employing contemporary classification criteria, such as low- versus highgrade malignancies, a strictly standardized regimen of surgical staging, and meticulous reporting of recurrence localization, may help develop more differentiated recommendations."
systematic-review	ONK355651	"Pre-Operative Peritumoral Edema and Survival Rate in Glioblastoma Multiforme Pre-Operative Peritumoral Edema and Survival Rate in Glioblastoma Multiforme The aim of this systematic review was to examine the relationship between pre-operative peritumoral edema and survival in patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). We searched for studies involving patients with GBM who underwent pre-operative imaging (magnetic resonance imaging and/or computed tomography) in which the peritumoral edema was assessed as a prognostic factor for survival. 7 retrospective studies met the eligibility criteria and were included in the study. 2 studies found that pre-operative peritumoral edema was an independent prognostic factor for decreased survival. 1 study found that survival was dependent on the severity of the peritumoral edema (minimal and severe: increased survival; moderate: decreased survival). 2 studies found that pre-operative peritumoral edema was a predictor of decreased survival based on univariate but not multivariate analysis. 1 study found that there was no relationship between pre-operative peritumoral edema and survival, while the remaining study found that patients with peritumoral edema had decreased survival compared with patients without peritumoral edema. There was considerable heterogeneity between the studies regarding the patient characteristics. The results of our systematic review are inconclusive; the available evidence does not definitely support or rule out an association between pre-operative peritumoral edema and survival. Hence, further, well-designed, prospective studies are clearly needed."
case-report	OOP441725	Amelanotic Irido-Ciliary Ring Melanoma: A Clinicopathological Correlation Amelanotic Irido-Ciliary Ring Melanoma: A Clinicopathological Correlation Purpose: To report a case of an amelanotic irido-ciliary ring melanoma. Design: Interventional case report. Results: A 44-year-old male was followed for asymptomatic amelanotic iris nevus of the right eye that was noted to have a localized ciliary body mass with ring extension along the trabecular meshwork. Fine needle aspiration biopsy was consistent with malignant melanoma. The patient underwent enucleation and remains disease free at 9 years of follow-up. Histopathology revealed malignant melanoma involving the iris and ciliary body with a 360-degree extension along the trabecular meshwork. The tumor was composed of a mixture of spindled and epithelioid cells with scant pigmentation. Conclusions: Amelanotic irido-ciliary ring melanoma with growth along the trabecular meshwork is a rare form of uveal melanoma that could present as an inconspicuous amelanotic iris mass.
case-report	OOP448114	Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in the Treatment of Choroidal Metastases from Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Case Report and Review of Literature Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in the Treatment of Choroidal Metastases from Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Case Report and Review of Literature Background: Choroidal metastases being the sole presenting feature of lung cancer is rare. Erlotinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), is used in the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma where tumor cells exhibit epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations. We report a case of metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with choroidal metastasis, which was the sole presenting feature and which responded to erlotinib. Methods: We performed a retrospective case review. Case: A 78-year-old man presented with a choroidal mass which was found to be the presenting feature of metastatic NSCLC. Our patient, a nonsmoker, had disseminated bony metastases, and therefore was advised to undergo palliative chemotherapy, which he refused. He was therefore instituted on oral erlotinib. Results: Tumor cells expressing EGFR mutations are known to be susceptible to TKIs. Even though the tumor in our case showed no mutation, i.e. was classified as ‘wild-type', our patient showed a dramatic response to erlotinib. At 1 year, the choroidal lesion had regressed and visual acuity had recovered. Conclusions: TKIs may be beneficial in patients with choroidal metastases from NSCLC, especially those in which an EGFR mutation is noted. Even in the absence of such mutations, choroidal metastases may show a favorable effect in response to TKIs, such as erlotinib.
case-report	OOP448220	Ocular Surface Squamous Neoplasia Associated with Atopic Keratoconjunctivitis Ocular Surface Squamous Neoplasia Associated with Atopic Keratoconjunctivitis Purpose: To describe 2 cases of invasive squamous cell carcinoma that originated in the setting of severe atopic keratoconjunctivitis (AKC). Methods: Case one involved a 73-year-old male with atopic eczema and severe AKC who developed a limbal lesion suspicious for ocular surface squamous neoplasia (OSSN). Slit-lamp examination was significant for a new sessile lesion in the temporal limbal region of the left eye. The lesion was treated with excisional biopsy and cryotherapy. Topical therapy with mitomycin C, topical interferon alpha 2b, and topical 5-fluorouracil provided only partial control. Exenteration was eventually needed. Case two involved a 53-year-old male with history of severe AKC and eczema. Computed tomography imaging showed an infiltrative mass of the right orbit. Incisional biopsies confirmed conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma of both sides (invasive in the right eye, in situ in the left eye). Exenteration was needed for control of invasive carcinoma in the right eye. Results: Squamous cell carcinoma was treated without success in spite of surgical excision and aggressive treatment with multiple topical agents and multiple applications of cryotherapy. Orbital exenteration was needed in both cases. Conclusion: Chronic inflammation associated with AKC may be a risk factor for the development of bilateral, diffuse, invasive, and recurrent OSSN that may require exenteration.
case-report	OOP448718	Acute Hemorrhagic Retinopathy following Intravitreal Melphalan Injection for Retinoblastoma: A Report of Two Cases and Technical Modifications to Enhance the Prevention of Retinal Toxicity Acute Hemorrhagic Retinopathy following Intravitreal Melphalan Injection for Retinoblastoma: A Report of Two Cases and Technical Modifications to Enhance the Prevention of Retinal Toxicity Aims: To report the occurrence of acute hemorrhagic retinopathy following intravitreal melphalan injection for retinoblastoma. Methods: This is a retrospective case series of 2 patients with retinoblastoma treated with intravitreal melphalan for vitreous seeding who developed acute hemorrhagic retinopathy. Results: Patient 1 is a 6-month-old female with bilateral retinoblastoma (Group D right eye and Group B left eye) treated with 4 cycles of systemic chemotherapy and 2 intravitreal melphalan injections in each eye. Patient 2 is a 10-month-old male with unilateral Group D retinoblastoma treated with 6 cycles of systemic chemotherapy and 2 injections of intravitreal melphalan. At the 1-week follow-up after the second injection, both patients had an acute hemorrhagic retinopathy that resulted in chorioretinal toxicity with a sharp demarcation line between the normal and abnormal retina. At the last follow-up (22 and 12 months, respectively), there was total tumor control and resolution of vitreous seeding in both patients. Conclusions: Although intravitreal melphalan injection is effective for vitreous seeding in eyes with retinoblastoma, acute hemorrhagic retinopathy and diffuse chorioretinal atrophy is a possible complication of this treatment modality. Given the clinical findings observed in these patients, the development of this retinal toxicity most likely results from a retrohyaloid overdose. Consequently we suggest preventive measures aimed at limiting the risk of retrohyaloid injection.
case-report	OOP449103	Occult Fungal Scleritis Occult Fungal Scleritis Purpose: To heighten awareness of occult fungal scleritis. Method: Case report and review of the literature. Results: A 73-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus was diagnosed for 3 months with immune-mediated scleritis and subsequently treated with corticosteroids. On referral, the patient had a scleral nodule with contiguous corneal infiltrate and hypopyon. Culture grew Fusarium species not further classified. The infection could not be controlled with antifungal therapy, and the eye was removed. No exogenous or endogenous source for the infection could be identified by clinical history or examination. Conclusion: Fungal scleritis can develop in persons without a history of foreign body injury, minor trauma, or evidence of endogenous fungemia. A high index of suspicion for infectious scleritis must be maintained in persons with presumed immune-mediated scleritis who fail to respond to conventional therapy, particularly if they present with decreased visual acuity.
case-report	OOP449227	Isolated Extranodal Natural Killer T-Cell Lymphoma of the Orbit in a Young Patient: Complete Regression with the SMILE Regimen Isolated Extranodal Natural Killer T-Cell Lymphoma of the Orbit in a Young Patient: Complete Regression with the SMILE Regimen Purpose: Natural killer T-cell lymphoma (NKTL) is a highly malignant tumor that typically arises in the nose and/or paranasal sinuses. Isolated orbital involvement by NKTL is extremely rare, and only few case reports exist in the literature. Herein, we report a case of primary orbital NKTL in a young patient who showed very good response to chemotherapy with the SMILE regimen. Methods: A 28-year-old healthy female presented to us with epiphora and fullness of the lower eyelid. She had previously been diagnosed as orbital pseudotumor and was prescribed oral steroids. However, there was no response to the treatment. She also had a history of recurrent sinusitis. An incision biopsy revealed NKTL. A systemic workup did not reveal any other site of involvement. The patient received 6 cycles of chemotherapy (SMILE) and external beam radiotherapy. Results: The tumor showed complete regression after 2 cycles of chemotherapy. The patient is disease free at 24 months of follow-up. Conclusion: Reported median survival for primary orbital NKTL is extremely poor. This is perhaps the first report of a primary orbital NKTL demonstrating a remarkable treatment response to a newer chemotherapy regimen (SMILE) in combination with radiotherapy.
review-article	OOP452473	Systemic BRAF/MEK Inhibitors as a Potential Treatment Option in Metastatic Conjunctival Melanoma Systemic BRAF/MEK Inhibitors as a Potential Treatment Option in Metastatic Conjunctival Melanoma Aim: In this review, we outline similarities between conjunctival and skin melanoma as well as the effectiveness of combined BRAF/MEK inhibition in melanoma, and discuss the applicability of these agents in conjunctival melanoma. Methods: The study provides a PubMed literature review. Results: Conjunctival melanoma and skin melanoma are genetically and phenotypically related. Both tumors typically harbor BRAF mutations in more than 50% of cases. New targeted therapies in metastatic skin melanoma include selective inhibition of BRAF and MEK. Combined BRAF/MEK inhibition has revolutionized the treatment of metastatic skin melanoma, significantly improving patients' prognoses. While these new substances have been investigated extensively in the treatment of skin melanoma, comparable studies in conjunctival melanoma do not exist owing to the rarity of the malignancy. Conclusions: The application of combined BRAF/MEK inhibition in metastatic or unresectable conjunctival melanoma shows great potential for improving patients' prognoses. Future studies are needed to investigate the assumed benefit.
systematic-review	OOP455872	Iodine-125 Brachytherapy for Uveal Melanoma: A Systematic Review of Radiation Dose Iodine-125 Brachytherapy for Uveal Melanoma: A Systematic Review of Radiation Dose Aim: To investigate whether lower radiation doses may yield similar outcome measures to those from the COMS trial. Methods: A literature review of English language articles was performed using the PubMed database of the U.S. National Library of Medicine and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials using the following keywords: uveal melanoma, choroidal melanoma, primary uveal malignant melanoma, iodine-125 brachytherapy, local recurrence, local treatment failure, and local tumor control. The relationships between study local recurrence rate and median dosage were tested by linear regression, with each study weighted by the number of patients included. Results: Fifteen retrospective and prospective studies were selected for systematic review (2,662 patients). Ranges of reported mean or median radiation dose to tumor apex were 62.5-104.0 Gy. Local recurrence rates ranged from 0 to 24%. A 1.0-Gy increase in the average study dose was associated with a 0.14% decrease in local recurrence rate, which was not statistically significant (p value 0.336). Conclusion: The gold standard empirically derived 85.0-Gy radiation dose for the treatment of uveal melanoma could be tested in a randomized study.
case-report	OOP490061	Chemoreduction of Orbital Recurrence of Uveal Melanoma by Intra-Arterial Melphalan Chemoreduction of Orbital Recurrence of Uveal Melanoma by Intra-Arterial Melphalan Background/Aims: The treatment of orbital melanoma poses a management challenge. This case explores the delivery of high-dose melphalan to an orbital recurrence of uveal melanoma via intra-arterial delivery of melphalan to the orbit. A 62-year-old man developed recurrent orbital disease 7 months after enucleation for a large uveal melanoma. He received 6 monthly intra-arterial infusions of melphalan to the orbit, ranging in dose from 20 to 30 mg per infusion. Following the last infusion, mild temporary erythema was noted on the forehead along the distribution of the supratrochlear artery. The orbital recurrence was reduced in size by 66% in the longest dimension as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, 9 months following intra-arterial melphalan, tumor regrowth was detected on MRI, and additional treatment options were pursued. Conclusion: This case demonstrates that intra-arterial melphalan can result in nonsustained tumor regression of recurrent orbital uveal melanoma. It suggests that local delivery of high-dose melphalan may be helpful as a neoadjuvant treatment for uveal melanoma, and future studies will be useful to confirm the value of this approach in additional cases of recurrent and possibly in primary uveal melanoma.
case-report	OOP490476	A Rare Case of Congenital Orbital Cystic Neuroblastoma in an Infant A Rare Case of Congenital Orbital Cystic Neuroblastoma in an Infant Neuroblastoma, a relatively common tumor in infants, is rarely present at birth. A solid mass is the typical appearance of this neoplasm, while cystic formation is uncommon. Congenital cystic neuroblastoma is extremely rare and no previous report exists of its occurrence in the orbit. A newborn girl was referred with an extremely large mass on the right side of her face on the third day of her life. Prenatal ultrasonography had revealed a large mass (80 × 80 mm) in the frontal area. MRI revealed a heterogeneous mass composed of cystic and solid, contrast-enhancing components. Excisional biopsy was successfully performed and histopathologic diagnosis of neuroblastoma was confirmed. Systemic workup was negative for involvement of other organs and levels of catecholamine metabolites of serum and urine (homovanillic acid and vanillylmandelic acid) were normal. Postoperative course was uneventful with complete healing of the anophthalmic socket and normal physical and mental growth and development of the infant. To our knowledge, this is the first report of congenital cystic neuroblastoma primarily arising in the orbit.
case-report	OOP490856	Choroidal Ischemia Sparing the Watershed Zone following Intra-Arterial Chemotherapy for Retinoblastoma Choroidal Ischemia Sparing the Watershed Zone following Intra-Arterial Chemotherapy for Retinoblastoma Purpose: Intra-arterial chemotherapy (IAC) has become a mainstay in the management of retinoblastoma, especially in advanced or refractory disease. However, IAC is not without complications, and chemotherapy toxic effects can lead to partial or complete choroidal ischemia, often causing vision loss. Methods: This is a case report. Results: A 4-month-old girl with bilateral retinoblastoma was treated with secondary IAC (melphalan 5 mg) for recurrent tumor following intravenous chemotherapy. One month later, complete tumor control was achieved. However, she demonstrated broad choroidal ischemia in the nasal and temporal quadrants but sparing of the watershed zone superior and inferior to the optic disc and in the papillomacular region. Fluorescein angiography revealed poor perfusion of the choriocapillaris with visibility of the large choroidal vessels in the nasal and temporal areas but preserved perfusion of the watershed zone. The watershed zone remained intact on the 10-month follow-up, and the final visual acuity was fix and follow without strabismus. Conclusion: The pathophysiology of choroidal ischemia is not well understood, but the fortuitous watershed zone preservation in this case could represent uneven distribution of the chemotherapeutic drug, resulting in partial chemo-dilution of the medication in the watershed region, which represents the final downstream overlapping choroidal perfusion from both medial and lateral posterior ciliary arteries.
case-report	OOP493529	A Case of a Cavitary Iris Melanoma with Aqueous Cytological Modulation A Case of a Cavitary Iris Melanoma with Aqueous Cytological Modulation Malignant melanoma is the most common primary malignant tumour of the iris, but represents a small proportion of all uveal melanomas. The authors describe a 34-year-old male with a pigmented lesion of the iris. The lesion remained stable for 7 years, but the patient re-presented after this time with sudden enlargement of the mass and hyphaema. Excisional biopsy confirmed cavitary melanoma of the iris. This is the first reported case of cavitation in a primary iris melanoma. The patient has not had any further adjuvant treatment and remains metastasis free at 5 years of follow-up.
review-article	OPH298749	Long-Lasting Endotamponades in Vitreoretinal Surgery Long-Lasting Endotamponades in Vitreoretinal Surgery In modern vitreoretinal surgery, a variety of long-lasting endotamponades is available. These endotamponades differ in physical and chemical properties and their usage is based on certain pathological and surgical considerations. With modern endotamponades the treatment and prognosis for some severe diseases of the posterior segment was improved. Besides these supportive features of new endotamponades, the surgeon has to keep in mind that certain steps, like a complete removal of the vitreous and of any traction, are crucial for the success of an operation and that the most supportive step for the retina is complete endotamponade. This review gives an overview of longlasting endotampoandes in vitreoretinal surgery and of the indications for their usage.
review-article	OPH314718	Retinal Vein Occlusion: Current Treatment Retinal Vein Occlusion: Current Treatment Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is a pathology noted for more than 150 years. Although a lot has been written on the matter, it is still a frequent condition with multifactorial etiopathogenesis with many unclear aspects. The RVO pathogenesis has varied systemic and local implications that make it difficult to elaborate treatment guidelines. The management of the patient with RVO is very complex and a multidisciplinary approach is required in order to identify and correct the associated risk factors. Laser therapy remains the gold standard in RVO, but only modest functional improvement has been shown in branch retinal occlusion forms. Multicenter studies of intravitreal drugs present them as an option to combine with laser. Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor, corticosteroids and sustained-release implants are the future weapons to stop disease progression and get a better visual outcome. Consequently, it is useful to clarify some aspects of the pathology that allow a better patient management.
case-report	OPH324472	Autosomal Recessive Bestrophinopathy: New Observations on the Retinal Phenotype – Clinical and Molecular Report of an Italian Family Autosomal Recessive Bestrophinopathy: New Observations on the Retinal Phenotype – Clinical and Molecular Report of an Italian Family Purpose: To describe the genotype and phenotype in a 9-year-old boy with bilateral retinopathy. Methods: The patient, his healthy (by history) nonconsanguineous parents and his sister were examined by best-corrected visual acuity, matrix frequency doubling technology, monocular static field analysis, fundus autofluorescence imaging, optical coherence tomography, Ganzfeld electroretinography (ERG), pattern ERG, multifocal ERG, electro-oculography and genotyping of the BEST1 gene. Results: The patient presented with an Arden ratio of 1.25, an unremarkable ERG and fluorescent yellow deposits distributed throughout the fundus suggestive of autosomal recessive bestrophinopathy (ARB). Genotyping revealed a homozygous nonsense mutation in BEST1 (p.R200X). The parents and the sister, who were heterozygous mutation carriers, presented with normal ophthalmological function. Conclusions: ARB is a rare retinal disorder. We contribute a novel patient report indicative of ARB, assessed by clinical examination and confirmed by genotyping of BEST1, to the short list of ARB cases in the literature.
research-article	OPH348630	"Intravitreal Bevacizumab for Radiation-Induced Cystoid Macular Oedema in Patients with Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma: A Clinical Series Intravitreal Bevacizumab for Radiation-Induced Cystoid Macular Oedema in Patients with Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma: A Clinical Series Aims: To evaluate the outcome of intravitreal bevacizumab in the treatment of radiation-induced cystoid macular oedema among patients who underwent external beam radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Methods: Five patients were recruited. The length of time from the last external beam radiation therapy to presentation ranged from 12 months to 15 years. Intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 ml) was given and repeated monthly injections were administered until best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) improved to 6/9 or until 3 further injections did not show further improvement in BCVA. BCVA was measured and fundus photography, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and fluorescein angiography were performed at baseline. BCVA and OCT were recorded at each monthly visit. The duration of follow-up ranged from 6 months to 2 years. Results: Five patients (7 eyes) were recruited. At the final visit, 3 eyes (71.4%) showed reduction in the central subfield thickness (CST; mean reduction of 17.6%, range 9-149 µm) with improvement in BCVA, whilst 2 eyes worsened in terms of CST and final BCVA. Another 2 eyes remained altered in BCVA despite slight improvement in CST. Conclusion: The use of intravitreal bevacizumab in this group of patients showed variable response in terms of CST and BCVA outcome but remains a viable option to treat this challenging condition."
research-article	OPH348740	"Clinical Pattern of Toxoplasmic Retinochoroiditis in a Spanish Referral Center Clinical Pattern of Toxoplasmic Retinochoroiditis in a Spanish Referral Center Background/Aims: To analyze the clinical pattern of ocular toxoplasmosis in a referral center in Spain. Methods: The medical records of consecutive patients with ocular toxoplasmosis admitted from a single referral center for uveitis in Barcelona (Spain) were retrospectively analyzed between January 2005 and January 2011. Results: One hundred and thirteen eyes from 113 patients (74 Spanish and 39 South American) with active ocular toxoplasmosis were analyzed with a 12-month follow-up. Final BCVA ≤20/200 was found in 30 eyes (26.5%). The most frequent complications were macular edema (16.8%) and epiretinal membrane (11.5%). Anterior chamber cell scores of ≥2+ (p = 0.003), vitreous cell scores of ≥2+ (p = 0.001), and the presence of cataracts (p = 0.047) or serous retinal detachment (p = 0.008) were more common among the South American than Spanish cohort. Active macular lesions (p &lt; 0.001) with an initial BCVA ≤20/200 (p &lt; 0.001) and advanced age (p = 0.019) were predictors for final BCVA ≤20/200, whereas female gender (p = 0.021) and an initial BCVA ≤20/200 (p = 0.045) were predictors for ocular complications. Moreover, a BCVA ≤20/200 (p &lt; 0.001) and a vitreous cell score of ≥2+ (p = 0.045) at the initial examination were predictors of an eventual need for ocular surgery. Conclusion: The clinical features of ocular toxoplasmosis in Spanish patients differ from those of South American patients. In general, active macular lesions with an initial BCVA ≤20/200 and advanced age were shown to be predictors for final BCVA ≤20/200 in our patient cohort."
systematic-review	OPH357979	Corneal Collagen Crosslinking: A Systematic Review Corneal Collagen Crosslinking: A Systematic Review Keratoconus (KCN) is an ectatic disorder with progressive corneal thinning and a clinical picture of corneal protrusion, progressive irregular astigmatism, corneal fibrosis and visual deterioration. Other ectatic corneal disorders include: post-LASIK ectasia (PLE) and pellucid marginal degeneration (PMD). Corneal crosslinking (CXL) is a procedure whereby riboflavin sensitization with ultraviolet A radiation induces stromal crosslinks. This alters corneal biomechanics, causing an increase in corneal stiffness. In recent years, CXL has been an established treatment for the arrest of KCN, PLE and PMD progression. CXL has also been shown to be effective in the treatment of corneal infections, chemical burns, bullous keratopathy and other forms of corneal edema. This is a current review of CXL - its biomechanical principles, the evolution of CXL protocols in the past, present and future, indications for treatment, treatment efficacy and safety.
research-article	OPH371901	"The Effects of Ozurdex® (Dexamethasone Intravitreal Implant) on Experimental Proliferative Vitreoretinopathy The Effects of Ozurdex® (Dexamethasone Intravitreal Implant) on Experimental Proliferative Vitreoretinopathy Purpose: To investigate a new sustained-release formulation of dexamethasone (Ozurdex®) for inhibiting proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) and its effect on the expression of retinal glial reaction and inflammation in experimental PVR eyes. Methods: We used 30 pigmented rabbits for this study. One week after gas compression, the eyes were injected with 5 × 104 retinal pigment epithelial cells into the vitreous cavity to induce PVR. Concurrently, one eye also received an intravitreal injection of Ozurdex; the other eye was used as a control. PVR was graded by indirect ophthalmoscopy on days 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28. The expression of the retinal glial reaction and inflammation in experimental PVR eyes were evaluated by Western blot analysis. Results: PVR severity increased gradually and peaked after 14 days, and no differences in PVR severity between the study and control groups were observed at any time point. The expression of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) increased on days 7 and 14 in both the PVR control and study groups. While the use of Ozurdex in the study group showed less GFAP expression, this difference was not significant. The expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6 significantly increased on days 7 and 14 in PVR control eyes. There was a significant difference in TNF-α between PVR control eyes and Ozurdex-treated eyes on days 7 (p &lt; 0.001) and 14 (p = 0.019). Ozurdex in the study group showed lower IL-6 expression; however, this difference was not significant on days 7 (p = 0.063) and 14 (p = 0.052). Conclusions: The intravitreal injection of Ozurdex suppressed the expression of inflammatory markers; however, it did not mitigate the severity of experimental PVR in this animal model."
case-report	OPH442533	Delayed Boston Keratoprosthesis Exchange due to a Preceding Vitreoretinal Surgery with Intraoperative Choroidal Detachment Delayed Boston Keratoprosthesis Exchange due to a Preceding Vitreoretinal Surgery with Intraoperative Choroidal Detachment Purpose: The aim is to describe the main characteristics of an anterior/posterior segment surgery and how to resolve intraoperative complications. Setting/Venue: The anterior and posterior segment surgical video was created at the Department of Ophthalmology, Virgin Macarena University Hospital, Seville, Spain. Methods: We present the case of a male with Stevens-Johnson syndrome and severe limbal deficiency who needed a Boston type 1 keratoprosthesis, reaching a visual acuity of 0.4 (0.05 before surgery). In the course of follow-up, he developed corneal melting with perforation, immune vitritis, and a large epimacular membrane. We decided to perform a 23-gauge vitrectomy associated with keratoprosthesis exchange. As a consequence of inappropriate anesthesia, the patient woke up during the surgery, provoking a retinal tear besides a choroidal detachment. These damages needed endolaser photocoagulation as well as silicone oil tamponade, forcing us to postpone the exchange. An intravitreal dexamethasone implant was also injected. Two months later, the silicone oil was removed, and the Boston keratoprosthesis was replaced by a new type 1 model with a titanium back plate, which likely improves biocompatibility and retention and may reduce complications such as retroprosthetic membranes and stromal corneal melts. Results: Good anatomical results were achieved, and visual acuity slightly improved to 0.2. Conclusions: Combined anterior and posterior segment surgery represents a great challenge that can improve not only visual acuity but also quality of life in patients with severe diseases such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
research-article	OPH444885	"Characteristics of Hyperautofluorescent Choroidal Vessels within the Macular Atrophic Area Using Spectral-Domain Optical Coherence Tomography Characteristics of Hyperautofluorescent Choroidal Vessels within the Macular Atrophic Area Using Spectral-Domain Optical Coherence Tomography Purpose: The aim of this study was to clarify the characteristic findings in patients with geographic atrophy with or without hyperautofluorescent choroidal vessels within macular atrophic areas on short-wavelength fundus autofluorescence imaging. Procedures: Sixty-seven eyes of 43 consecutive patients with macular atrophic areas were divided into groups with (group 1) and without (group 2) hyperautofluorescent choroidal vessels on fundus autofluorescence imaging and then retrospectively studied using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. Results: In group 1 (n = 21), the average subfoveal choroidal thickness was 61.5 ± 20.1 μm, and the average foveal retinal thickness was 93.0 ± 51.3 μm. On the other hand, in group 2 (n = 46), the average subfoveal choroidal thickness was 200.7 ± 83.1 μm, and the average foveal retinal thickness was 109.2 ± 58.5 μm. Although retinal thickness did not differ significantly between the two groups (p = 0.28), the difference in choroidal thickness was statistically significant (p &lt; 0.001). Conclusions: Choroidal thinning might contribute to the hyperautofluorescence of choroidal vessels."
meta-analysis	ORE363327	Role of Lutein Supplementation in the Management of Age-Related Macular Degeneration: Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Role of Lutein Supplementation in the Management of Age-Related Macular Degeneration: Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Objective: The conduct of this meta-analysis aimed at examining the individual role of lutein as a dietary supplement in improving conditions of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) from the data generated from randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Method: The literature search was made in multiple electronic databases. Eligibility criteria were RCTs that recruited AMD patients or individuals at risk and evaluated lutein supplementation efficacy against placebo. The quality of the trials was assessed by using the Jadad scale. The meta-analysis was conducted under the fixed effect model with RevMan software by calculating the mean differences of the changes from baseline of both lutein and placebo groups. Parameters of interest were macular pigment optical density (MPOD) and visual acuity (VA) in logMAR (minimum angle of resolution). Heterogeneity was determined by &
research-article	ORE371731	"The Effect of Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs on Retinal Function in the Electrophysiological ex vivo Model of the Isolated Perfused Vertebrate Retina The Effect of Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs on Retinal Function in the Electrophysiological ex vivo Model of the Isolated Perfused Vertebrate Retina Background: Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) have been suggested in the treatment of inflammatory ophthalmological diseases. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of these DMARDs on bovine retinal function. Methods: Bovine retina preparations were perfused with a standard solution. After recording stable electroretinograms the nutrient solution was substituted by a DMARD medium with varying concentrations of different drugs (etanercept and infliximab) for 30 min. Afterwards b-wave recovery was observed. Results: Significant decreases in the b-wave amplitude (p &lt; 0.05) were found for etanercept 0.5 mg/ml (p = 0.0022). Infliximab 2 mg/ml (p = 0.1276) did not result in any statistically significant b-wave reduction. Conclusion: The presented data suggest that infliximab might have the better safety profile than etanercept."
meta-analysis	ORE442257	"Association of Two Polymorphisms, rs1061170 and rs1410996, in Complement Factor H with Age-Related Macular Degeneration in an Asian Population: A Meta-Analysis Association of Two Polymorphisms, rs1061170 and rs1410996, in Complement Factor H with Age-Related Macular Degeneration in an Asian Population: A Meta-Analysis Background: With the increasing number of studies indicating that two single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs1061170 and rs1410996, in complement factor H (CFH) might be associated with the susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the exact association still remains uncertain. Thus, we conducted a meta-analysis to systematically summarize and clarify the association between the two SNPs and the AMD risk particularly in an Asian population. Methods: A systematic search of studies on the association of two SNPs with the susceptibility to AMD was conducted in PubMed, Embase and Web of Science. Summary odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of allele contrast and genotype contrast were estimated using the random or fixed effects model. The Q statistic test was used to identify heterogeneity, and the funnel plot was adopted to evaluate publication bias. A total of 19 case-control studies on rs1061170 and 8 studies on rs1410996 were included. Results: Clearly a significantly increased trend of AMD was observed with the rs1061170 (T vs. C: OR = 1.91, 95% CI = 1.71-2.13, pH = 0.029; TC vs. CC: OR = 2.11, 95% CI = 1.30-3.42, pH = 0.792; TT vs. CC: OR = 3.90, 95% CI = 2.45-6.22, pH = 0.774). Similarly, the rs1410996 polymorphism also showed a rising AMD tendency (T vs. C: OR = 1.48, 95% CI = 1.17-1.87, pH &lt; 0.001; TC vs. CC: OR = 1.52, 95% CI = 1.13-2.04, pH = 0.002; TT vs. CC: OR = 2.10, 95% CI = 1.27-3.49, pH &lt; 0.001). What is more, subgroup analysis revealed that both polymorphisms indicated a high risk of nAMD (neovascular AMD) in Asian populations. Conclusions: This meta-analysis suggested that CFH rs1061170 and rs1410996 polymorphisms were associated with AMD risk, both of which demonstrated a higher susceptibility to AMD, especially to nAMD. However, the results of rs1410996 should be interpreted with caution due to the limited sample and heterogeneity. Large-scale and well-designed studies are needed to validate our findings."
meta-analysis	ORE443627	Association of MMP-9 Gene Polymorphisms with Glaucoma: A Meta-Analysis Association of MMP-9 Gene Polymorphisms with Glaucoma: A Meta-Analysis The aim of this study was to evaluate the associations between matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) gene polymorphisms (rs17576 and rs3918249) and glaucoma risk. All eligible studies were searched in PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane Library and the China Knowledge Resource Integrated Database. Pooled odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals were used to assess associations between MMP-9 gene polymorphisms and glaucoma. Seven studies on rs17576 (1,357 cases and 1,432 controls) and 3 studies on rs3918249 (550 cases and 794 controls) were included. The results suggest that rs17576 was not associated with glaucoma risk based on current publications. However, stratification analyses indicated that GG genotypes increased the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma in a recessive model (GG vs. AA + AG). The rs3918249 polymorphism was also associated with a decreased risk of glaucoma, especially for Caucasian patients. To sum up, our data indicate that rs17576 polymorphism is not related to glaucoma and rs3918249 polymorphism might be a protective factor against glaucoma.
research-article	ORE444059	Plasmatic Ganglioside Profile and Age-Related Macular Degeneration: A Case-Control Study Plasmatic Ganglioside Profile and Age-Related Macular Degeneration: A Case-Control Study Purpose: Gangliosides are glycosphingolipids that are particularly abundant in the nervous system, including the retina. However, their precise role in this tissue and its pathologies remain poorly understood. The objective of the present study was to characterize the ganglioside profile of human plasma and to determine whether it is affected in age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Methods: Eighty-three subjects were included: control subjects (n = 25), atrophic AMD patients (n = 27) and exudative AMD patients (n = 31). For each subject, gangliosides were extracted from plasma and analyzed by liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. Results: GM3 appeared to be by far the major ganglioside of human plasma, associated with GD3. No specific ganglioside class was detected in the plasma of AMD patients. Fourteen molecular species of GM3 and 9 species of GD3, accounting for the variability of the ceramide moiety of the ganglioside molecule, were identified and characterized. Analyses revealed no significant differences in the proportion of these species between control, atrophic and exudative AMD patient groups. Total GM3 levels did not differ either. Conclusion: Although gangliosides are considered important for the retina's structure and function, it seems that circulating gangliosides are not associated with the retinal damage occurring during the course of AMD.
meta-analysis	ORE444301	Changes in Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness in Obstructive Sleep Apnea/Hypopnea Syndrome: A Meta-Analysis Changes in Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness in Obstructive Sleep Apnea/Hypopnea Syndrome: A Meta-Analysis Purpose: To evaluate and compare changes in retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in patients with obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS). Methods: The Cochrane Library, Medline, and Embase were screened using our key words. Results were carefully reviewed to ensure that the included studies met the inclusion/exclusion criteria, and the quality of the studies was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. All included studies categorized patients with OSAHS into 3 groups (mild, moderate, and severe), and measured average and 4-quadrant (temporal, superior, nasal, and inferior) RNFL thickness. All studies included a healthy control group. The weighted mean differences and 95% confidence intervals were calculated for the continuous outcomes. Results: Ten case-control studies were included in the meta-analysis, consisting of a total of 811 OSAHS group and 868 healthy eyes. A meta-analysis of the data showed that the average RNFL thicknesses in the mild, moderate, and severe OSAHS groups were significantly decreased compared to healthy controls. Additionally, RNFL thickness was significantly reduced in all but the temporal quadrant in the moderate and severe OSAHS groups when compared to healthy controls. Conclusions: On the basis of these results, we suggest that peripapillary RNFL thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography could be a useful tool to monitor and assess the severity of OSAHS in patients. Further studies are required in order to differentiate these RNFL changes from glaucomatous changes. This has not been properly examined in any of the studies we were able to identify.
research-article	ORE444395	"Long-Term Effect of Anti-VEGF Agents on Intraocular Pressure in Age-Related Macular Degeneration Long-Term Effect of Anti-VEGF Agents on Intraocular Pressure in Age-Related Macular Degeneration Purpose: To analyze the effect of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents on intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Materials andMethods: This is a retrospective study that included 72 patients treated unilaterally with anti-VEGF agents according to a pro re nata regimen. Fellow noninjected eyes (n = 72) were used as controls. IOP variation and the development of sustained ocular hypertension (OHT) were assessed both in the injected and in the fellow eyes. Results: While the final IOP was not significantly different between the 2 groups, sustained OHT developed in 4.2% of the injected eyes and 1.4% of the controls. In the study group, no significant IOP variation was noted during follow-up in patients receiving ≤20 injections, but there was a significant increase in IOP with time in more frequently treated patients (p = 0.041). Comparison of both subgroups demonstrated that patients receiving &gt;20 injections suffered significantly greater IOP variation (p = 0.034) during follow-up, and that these patients tended to require IOP-lowering treatment more frequently (p = 0.090). Conclusion: Multiple anti-VEGF injections lead to an increase in IOP, although this variation is not sufficient to cause development of OHT in the majority of patients."
meta-analysis	ORE446845	"Risk of Ophthalmic Adverse Effects in Patients Treated with MEK Inhibitors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Risk of Ophthalmic Adverse Effects in Patients Treated with MEK Inhibitors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: This meta-analysis aims to evaluate the risk of ophthalmic adverse effects associated with MEK inhibitors. Methods: A literature search was conducted in PubMed and the Cochrane Library to identify randomized clinical trials (RCTs) which have been designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of MEK inhibitors. Overall risk of ophthalmic adverse effects, chorioretinopathy, retinal detachment, blurred vision, uveitis, and eye haemorrhage were the assessed outcomes. Peto odds ratios (ORs) with their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were pooled. Between-study heterogeneity was assessed using I2 statistics. Results: Thirteen RCTs were included in this meta-analysis. Overall, MEK inhibitors were associated with an increased risk of ophthalmic adverse effects (OR 2.24; 95% CI 1.75-2.87; p &lt; 0.0001; I2 = 86.5%). An increased risk was also estimated for chorioretinopathy (OR 5.44; 95% CI 2.89-10.23; p &lt; 0.0001; I2 = 0%), retinal detachment (OR 6.54; 95% CI 3.28-13.03; p &lt; 0.0001; I2 = 0%), and blurred vision (OR 2.30; 95% CI 1.50-3.54; p &lt; 0.0001; I2 = 60.1%), but not for uveitis (OR 0.99; 95% CI 0.14-7.03; p = 0.991; I2 = 2.9%) or eye haemorrhage (OR 0.72; 95% CI 0.04-12.39; p = 0.824; I2 = 29.8%). Conclusions: Treatment with MEK inhibitors seems to increase the risk of ophthalmic adverse effects. A need for monitoring the safety of this class of drugs exists. Regulators, clinicians, and other health care professionals must, together, be involved in this process."
review-article	ORE479376	Ophthalmic Start-Up Chief Executive Officers' Perceptions of Development Hurdles Ophthalmic Start-Up Chief Executive Officers' Perceptions of Development Hurdles Purpose: To identify current challenges facing ophthalmic pharmaceutical start-ups in developing new products. Methods: Surveys were distributed to the chief executive officer (CEO) or president of ophthalmic start-ups. Results: The survey attracted 24 responses from 78 surveys distributed (31%). The CEOs stated that a lack of financial capital (n = 18, 75%), FDA regulations (n = 6, 25%), and failure to meet clinical endpoints (n = 6, 25%) were their greatest development hurdles. Risk aversion to medicines in early development (n = 18, 75%), mergers and acquisitions reducing corporate choice for licensing agreements (n = 7, 29%), the emergence of large pharmaceutical-based venture capital funding groups (n = 12, 50%), and the failure of many large pharmaceutical companies to develop their own medicines (n = 10, 42%) were noted as recent prominent trends affecting fundraising. Conclusion: The study suggests that development funding, regulatory burden, and meeting clinical endpoints are the greatest development challenges faced by ophthalmic start-up CEOs.
meta-analysis	ORE479377	"Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness Changes in the Pseudoexfoliation Syndrome: A Meta-Analysis of Case-Control Studies Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness Changes in the Pseudoexfoliation Syndrome: A Meta-Analysis of Case-Control Studies Purpose: To evaluate and compare changes in retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in patients with the pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PXS) and healthy controls. Methods: Case-control studies were selected through an electronic search of the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, PubMed, and Embase. Results were reviewed to ensure that the included studies met prespecified inclusion/exclusion criteria, and the quality of each study was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. All included studies measured average and 4-quadrant (temporal, superior, nasal, and inferior) RNFL thickness using optical coherence tomography (OCT). For the continuous outcomes, we calculated the weighted mean difference (WMD) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Results: Eight case-control studies were included in this meta-analysis involving 225 eyes of PXS patients and 208 eyes of healthy controls in total. Statistical analysis revealed that the average RNFL thickness in PXS patients was significantly reduced compared to healthy controls (WMD = −6.91, 95% CI: −9.99 to −3.82, p &lt; 0.0001). Additionally, differences in RNFL thickness in the superior quadrant (WMD = −10.68, 95% CI: −16.40 to −4.95, p = 0.0003), inferior quadrant (WMD = −8.20, 95% CI: −10.85 to −5.55, p &lt; 0.00001), nasal quadrant (WMD = −3.05, 95% CI: −5.21 to −0.90, p = 0.005), and temporal quadrant (WMD = −6.39, 95% CI: −9.98 to −2.80, p = 0.0005) were all significant between the two groups. Conclusions: These results suggest that it is important to evaluate RNFL thickness and the optic nerve head through OCT in patients with PXS in order to determine early glaucomatous damage and start timely intervention prior to visual field loss."
meta-analysis	ORE489931	"Retinopathy of Type 1 Diabetes in Arab Countries: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Retinopathy of Type 1 Diabetes in Arab Countries: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Aims: To conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of retinopathy prevalence in patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) in 22 Arab countries. Methods: We systematically searched 4 different literature databases (PubMed, Science Direct, Web of Science and Embase), from the date of inception until December 2017, to collect all the information about patients with T1D who developed retinopathy complications; for statistical analysis, we used MetaXL to evaluate the pooled prevalence estimate and the subgroup prevalence estimates employing double arcsine transformation and inverse variance heterogeneity models. Results: Our search strategy returned 475 studies, of which 39 met our inclusion criteria; of those, 16 were eligible for meta-analysis that were captured only in 15 Arab countries, through 45 years (1969–2014). The number of retinopathy patients was 396 out of 1,931 patients with T1D. The prevalence of retinopathy was 19% (95% CI 10–28%). Substantial heterogeneity was observed (Q 240.78, p &"
research-article	ORL346934	"Comparison of Voice Quality after Laser Cordectomy with That after Radiotherapy or Chemoradiotherapy for Early Glottic Carcinoma Comparison of Voice Quality after Laser Cordectomy with That after Radiotherapy or Chemoradiotherapy for Early Glottic Carcinoma Purpose of the Study: The present study aimed to compare the voice quality after each type of cordectomy with that after radiotherapy (RT) or chemoradiotherapy (CRT) for early glottic carcinoma. Procedures: The GRBAS perceptive scale [consisting of 5 domains: grade (G), roughness (R), breathiness (B), asthenia (A), and strain (S)], aerodynamic tests and acoustic analyses, and the Voice Handicap Index questionnaire were evaluated for 58 laser cordectomy cases and 40 RT or CRT cases. Multiple comparison tests were conducted between each type of cordectomy and RT or CRT. Results: No statistical difference was found between type I/II cordectomy and RT for T1 glottic carcinoma (T1RT), whereas T1RT showed a significantly better outcome than type III cordectomy (G score: p = 0.016, maximum phonation time: p &lt; 0.01, mean flow rate: p &lt; 0.01). Type IV cordectomy was equivalent to RT or CRT for T2 glottic carcinoma (T2RT/CRT), while types V and VI showed a worse voice quality than T2RT/CRT (G score: p = 0.038 to type VI, B score: p = 0.025 to type V and p = 0.032 to type VI, A score: p = 0.017 to type VI). Conclusions: Voice quality after laser cordectomy differs according to the type of cordectomy. Surgeons should inform patients about the expected voice quality after each treatment modality."
research-article	ORL347080	Training Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak Repair with Nasoseptal Flap on the Lamb's Head Training Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak Repair with Nasoseptal Flap on the Lamb's Head Background: One of the major challenges of cranial base surgery is reconstruction of dural defects and cerebrospinal fluid leak closure. Various grafting methods have been used for smaller skull base defects with great success. The indications for endoscopic reconstruction have recently evolved to encompass much larger breeches in the skull base following tumor removal, thus emphasizing the need for vascularized tissue flaps for reconstruction. Methods: Some authors proposed a pedicled flap of the nasal septum mucoperiosteum and mucoperichondrium, which is very vascularized and has quite a large surface. It is also long enough to easily cover even larger defects of the skull base. The elevation of a nasoseptal flap is based on a particularly advanced surgical technique and thus requires proper training before being performed in a real patient. Results: Anatomical differences between human and lamb heads were observed and explained although they do not affect the procedure of the elevation of the nasoseptal flap. Conclusions: The lamb's head has been shown to be an ideal model for the adequate training of the surgical skills required for this demanding procedure.
systematic-review	ORL369624	The University of Pennsylvania Curriculum for Training Otorhinolaryngology Residents in Transoral Robotic Surgery The University of Pennsylvania Curriculum for Training Otorhinolaryngology Residents in Transoral Robotic Surgery Purpose: To define a curriculum for the development of robotic surgical skills in otorhinolaryngology residency training. Methods: A systematic review of the current literature on robotic surgery training was performed. Based on prior reports in other specialties, a curriculum for otorhinolaryngology residents was created that progresses through several modules, including didactics, inanimate skills laboratory, and operative experience. Results: The curriculum for residents in otorhinolaryngology was designed as follows: didactics include an overview of the robotic device and instruments, a tutorial in basic controls and function, and a room setup and positioning. The anatomy and steps of transoral procedures are taught through books, videos, operative observations, and cadaver dissections. Skills are developed with a virtual reality robotic simulator and robotics labs. The operative experience progresses from case observation to bedside assistant to console surgeon. The role of the console surgeon progresses in a stepwise fashion, and the procedures of radical tonsillectomy, supraglottic partial laryngectomy, and base of tongue resection have been organized as a series of steps. Conclusion: A structured curriculum for training residents in transoral robotic surgery was developed. This training is important for otorhinolaryngology residents to acquire the knowledge and skills to perform robotic surgery safely.
meta-analysis	ORL371854	Submandibular Gland Transfer for the Prevention of Postradiation Xerostomia in Patients with Head and Neck Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Submandibular Gland Transfer for the Prevention of Postradiation Xerostomia in Patients with Head and Neck Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Submandibular gland transfer has been widely used to prevent postradiation xerostomia in head-and-neck cancers. However, there are still some controversies. Methods: Six databases were searched, data extraction was performed and the risk of bias was assessed by 2 reviewers independently. The meta-analysis was performed using Review Manager, version 5.2. Results: A total of 7 trials (12 articles) and 369 participants were included. Conclusions: The present clinical evidence suggests that submandibular gland transfer might be highly effective to prevent postradiation xerostomia in head-and-neck cancers without serious adverse events. However, more randomized controlled trials are still needed to confirm this conclusion.
research-article	ORL430820	Management of Severe and Complex Hypopharyngeal and/or Laryngotracheal Stenoses by Various Open Surgical Procedures: A Retrospective Study of Seventeen Patients Management of Severe and Complex Hypopharyngeal and/or Laryngotracheal Stenoses by Various Open Surgical Procedures: A Retrospective Study of Seventeen Patients Objective: To systematically study various surgical approaches for treating complex hypopharyngeal and/or laryngotracheal stenoses at a variety of sites and levels. Patients and Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the treatment of 17 patients with severe and complex hypopharyngeal and/or laryngotracheal stenosis at various sites and levels of severity. All of the 17 patients initially had a tracheostomy. Thirteen had failed the previous laser lysis and/or dilation treatment. Given the high severity and complexity of stenosis, all of these patients were treated by open surgical reconstruction techniques using repairing grafts (flaps), followed by stenting. Results: Thirteen of 17 patients had successful decannulation 1-8 months post-operation and had stable airway and adequate vocal and swallow function. Two patients with complex hypopharyngeal and esophageal stenosis had unsuccessful decannulation. Follow-up was lost in 1 patient with complex hypopharyngeal and esophageal stenosis and 1 patient with original hypopharyngeal stenosis and recurrent thoracotracheal stenosis. Conclusion: Despite the failure by the regular treatments using laser lysis and/or dilation therapy, severe and complex hypopharyngeal and/or laryngotracheal stenosis may be successfully treated by variable open surgical reconstruction techniques using different grafts (flaps) depending on the site and severity of the stenosis.
meta-analysis	ORL442023	The Effect of Upper Airway Surgery on Continuous Positive Airway Pressure Levels and Adherence: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Effect of Upper Airway Surgery on Continuous Positive Airway Pressure Levels and Adherence: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background /Aims: The aim of this study was to determine the effect of upper airway surgery (UAS) on continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). A secondary objective was to determine if a decrease in CPAP from UAS increases CPAP adherence. Methods: Studies were eligible for inclusion if a CPAP titration was performed both prior and following UAS in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Studies that compared adherence to CPAP before and after UAS were included to evaluate the secondary objective. Results: A total of 11 articles involving 323 patients were included in the review. The results show that there was a mean reduction in CPAP of 1.40 cm H2O (95% CI -2.08 to -0.73). Four of the 11 papers, with a total of 80 patients, evaluated CPAP adherence and found a significant 0.62-hour improvement on average (95% CI 0.22-1.01). Conclusion: Due to high levels of nonadherence, surgical intervention will play a role even in patients who are unlikely to be fully cured by surgery. UAS decreases the apnea-hypopnea index and modestly reduces CPAP while improving CPAP adherence in the majority of patients. The evidence suggests that UAS may have an adjunctive role in the management of OSA.
meta-analysis	ORL444644	"Total Thyroidectomy versus Bilateral Subtotal Thyroidectomy for Bilateral Multinodular Nontoxic Goiter: A Meta-Analysis Total Thyroidectomy versus Bilateral Subtotal Thyroidectomy for Bilateral Multinodular Nontoxic Goiter: A Meta-Analysis Aim: The aim of this meta-analysis is to assess and validate the feasibility and safety of total thyroidectomy (TT) when compared to bilateral subtotal thyroidectomy (BST) for bilateral multinodular nontoxic goiter (BMNG). Materials and Methods: PubMed, Web of Knowledge, and Ovid's database were searched for studies published in English language between January 1990 and December 2014. A meta-analysis was performed to compare the complications and recurrences of TT versus BST. The search terms used were ‘total thyroidectomy', ‘bilateral subtotal thyroidectomy', ‘multinodular nontoxic goiter' and ‘randomized clinical trial'. The reference lists of relevant studies were checked manually to locate any missing studies. Results: Four trials with a total of 1,078 patients were analyzed. Although the incidence of transient hypoparathyroidism was higher in TT than in BST (OR = 2.59, 95% CI [1.58-4.24], p = 0.0002), TT was associated with a significantly lower incidence of recurrence (OR = 0.04, 95% CI [0.01, 0.17], p &lt; 0.0001). There were no statistically significant differences for the presence of transient/permanent recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy and permanent hypoparathyroidism between the two groups. Conclusion: TT is a feasible and safe procedure for patients with BMNG. Although TT involves a significantly higher risk of postoperative transient hypoparathyroidism, it has a lower recurrence rate than BST."
review-article	ORL453269	Effect of Temporal Fascia and Pedicle Inferior Turbinate Mucosal Flap on Repair of Large Nasal Septal Perforation via Endoscopic Surgery Effect of Temporal Fascia and Pedicle Inferior Turbinate Mucosal Flap on Repair of Large Nasal Septal Perforation via Endoscopic Surgery Background: The repair of large nasal septal perforations (NSPs) is one of the most challenging procedures in nasal surgery. The aim of this prospective clinical study was to determine the efficacy of using a pedicle inferior turbinate mucosal flap combined with temporal fascia to repair a large NSP. Method: Between January 2008 and December 2015, 17 consecutive patients with large NSPs underwent septal perforation repair via an endoscopic approach using a pedicle inferior turbinate mucosal flap combined with temporal fascia. Results: Complete closure of the perforation was achieved in all patients. Conclusion: The pedicle inferior turbinate mucosal flap combined with the temporal fascia technique can easily solve this challenging problem, and the current data from this prospective study suggest that this technique shows promising results.
systematic-review	ORL477970	Comparison between Primary and Secondary Tracheoesophageal Puncture Prosthesis: A Systematic Review Comparison between Primary and Secondary Tracheoesophageal Puncture Prosthesis: A Systematic Review Introduction: Since the introduction of tracheoesophageal puncture (TEP) and placement of voice prosthesis, this has become the method of choice to achieve speech rehabilitation after total laryngectomy. Objective: To compare the complications and success in speech rehabilitation of patients undergoing rehabilitation after primary and secondary TEP (TEP1 and TEP2) through a systematic review. Methods: The literature survey included research in MedLine, Scielo, Lilacs, Cochrane and Websco until June 2016. Results: The rate of leakage around the prosthesis was higher in TEP1 (22.5 vs. 6.9%, p = 0.03). There were higher rates of wound infection (9.1 vs. 3.9%) and tracheal stenosis (8.5 vs. 4.5%) in the TEP1 group compared to TEP2, however with no statistical significance. The evaluation of speech quality was not possible due to the heterogeneity of the studies. Conclusion: There is a reduction in the risk of leakage around the prosthesis among TEP2 patients.
review-article	ORL489461	The Telomerase and Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres Mechanisms Regulate Laryngeal Cancer Cell Apoptosis via the PI3K/Akt Pathway The Telomerase and Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres Mechanisms Regulate Laryngeal Cancer Cell Apoptosis via the PI3K/Akt Pathway Purpose: To investigate the possible telomerase and alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) mechanisms influencing the apoptosis of laryngeal squamous cells. Materials and Methods: The effects of the telomerase mechanism were observed by knockdown of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT). The ALT mechanism was induced by silencing related genes including TRF2, RAD51, and NBS1. Effects of telomerase and ALT mechanisms on tumor development were confirmed by xenograft tumors model. Tumor cell apoptosis was investigated by flow cytometry and Hoechst staining. Caspase-3 activity assay and Western blot were performed to investigate the possible mechanisms. Results: After silencing ALT- and telomerase mechanism-related genes, Bax and Bcl-2 were increased, and nuclear factor (NF)-κB translocation and PI3K/Akt phosphorylation were inhibited. Conclusions: The inhibition of telomere-related genes inhibited the growth of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma by promoting cell apoptosis via the PI3K/Akt pathway.
systematic-review	ORL489466	Transoral Robotic Surgery for Oropharyngeal Cancer Transoral Robotic Surgery for Oropharyngeal Cancer Transoral robotic surgery has shown significant promise in the management of oropharyngeal cancer since its description in 2007. The oncological efficacy of this procedure has been proven in several single-centre studies, multicentre collaborative publications and systematic reviews. The rapid take-up of transoral robotic surgery shows greater acceptance by professionals and is associated with a relatively short learning curve. This overview discusses the rationale and principles underlying the use of transoral robotic surgery in primary and recurrent oropharyngeal cancer and the emerging role for this technique in diagnosing the unknown primary site, and summarizes ongoing research in this field.
research-article	ORL490596	Transoral Robotic Surgery and the Unknown Primary Transoral Robotic Surgery and the Unknown Primary Carcinoma of unknown primary (CUP) comprises approximately 1%–5% of all head and neck malignancies. Primary site detection rates for metastatic cervical squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) remain variable, with current diagnostic imaging unable to identify all tumours. Prevailing evidence suggests that most head and neck CUP are located in the oropharynx. Diagnostic surgical efforts have been directed at sampling the entire oropharynx. Present techniques that make this possible include transoral robotic surgery (TORS). TORS Lingual tonsillectomy or tongue base mucosectomy performed in the setting of head and neck CUP increases the detection rate of occult tumour. The indication, surgical technique, evidence base, and controversies of performing TORS in the context of the unknown primary are presented.
review-article	ORL492787	Robot-Assisted Reconstruction in Head and Neck Surgical Oncology: The Evolving Role of the Reconstructive Microsurgeon Robot-Assisted Reconstruction in Head and Neck Surgical Oncology: The Evolving Role of the Reconstructive Microsurgeon Transoral robotic surgery (TORS) is gaining more widespread use among head and neck surgical procedures. As experience grows with this technique, so do the indications of when and in which patients it can be used. Already established in the treatment of small oral cavity tumours, it is expanding into larger multi-site resections and resections, such as through-and-through-into-the-neck defects, that will require reconstruction. With robot-assisted surgery advancing, so robot-assisted reconstruction (RAR) is evolving. In this paper, we discuss the evolving role of reconstruction in post-TORS defects as well as the role of RAR in today’s practice.
case-report	ORL493736	Transoral Robotic Surgery (TORS) for Bilateral Eagle Syndrome Transoral Robotic Surgery (TORS) for Bilateral Eagle Syndrome Eagle syndrome is a rare and poorly understood clinical condition caused by an elongated or disfigured styloid process. The possible managements of Eagle syndrome include conservative medical treatment or surgical intervention. The surgical removal of the elongated styloid process may be efficiently achieved either by an intraoral or a transcervical approach. An effective styloidectomy may be either total or partial, provided the bony residue’s length is within the range of normality. Here, we report our experience with a bilateral robotic-assisted styloidectomy in a young female patient. Our experience showed that this procedure is a safe alternative to traditional surgical approaches, granting an excellent view and a safe manipulation by robotic arms, and, thereby, avoiding iatrogenic damage to neurovascular structures. Moreover, transoral robotic surgery could represent the gold standard for the treatment of bilateral Eagle syndrome cases allowing a quick and safe single-time surgery.
meta-analysis	ORT369545	"Prognostic Impact of C-Reactive Protein in Metastatic Prostate Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Prognostic Impact of C-Reactive Protein in Metastatic Prostate Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Serum C-reactive protein (CRP) demonstrates a prognostic impact in small studies of metastatic prostate cancer (MPC). Methods: A systematic review was conducted to identify publications and presentations exploring the association of serum CRP and overall survival (OS) in MPC, both castration-sensitive and castration-resistant. Heterogeneity among trials was assessed using Cochrane's Q statistic, and the I2 statistic was used to quantify inconsistency. The assumption of homogeneity was considered invalid if p &lt; 0.1. All statistical tests were 2-sided, and p &lt; 0.05 was considered significant. Results: 6 studies were eligible, totaling 659 evaluable patients. 2 studies evaluated castration-sensitive men receiving androgen deprivation, while the remaining 4 studies evaluated castration-resistant men receiving docetaxel-based chemotherapy. Men with higher CRP had significantly worse OS than those with lower CRP (hazard ratio (HR) = 1.42, p &lt; 0.001, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.17-1.73). In trials of castration-sensitive men, high CRP yielded a HR = 1.92 (p = 0.005, 95% CI 1.22-3.03; I2 = 0). In castration-resistant men, high CRP yielded HR = 1.35 (p = 0.003, 95% CI 1.11-1.65; I2 = 78.6%). Conclusion: This meta-analysis suggests a detrimental impact for CRP on OS in MPC. Prospective validation is justified to enhance prognostication and trial design, given the affordability, ready availability, and large dynamic range of CRP."
meta-analysis	ORT369546	Antiangiogenic Agents Combined with Chemotherapy in the First-Line Treatment of Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: Overall and Histology Subgroup-Specific Meta-Analysis Antiangiogenic Agents Combined with Chemotherapy in the First-Line Treatment of Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: Overall and Histology Subgroup-Specific Meta-Analysis Aim: This study investigated the overall and histology subtype-specific results of antiangiogenic agents combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone for the first-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Methods: Literature retrieval, trial selection, data collection, and statistical analysis were performed according to the Cochrane Handbook. The outcome measures were tumor response rate, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and adverse effects. Results: 13 randomized controlled trials comprising 5,451 patients were included. The meta-analysis showed a higher response rate (risk ratio (RR) 0.63, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.53-0.74) and a significantly prolonged PFS (hazard ratio (HR) 0.75, 95% CI 0.66-0.85) and OS (HR 0.92, 95% CI 0.86-0.98) in the groups combining antiangiogenic agents with chemotherapy versus the chemotherapy alone groups. In the histology subgroup analysis, treatment with antiangiogenic agents plus chemotherapy significantly improved the RR, PFS, and OS as compared with the chemotherapy groups in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC, but not in those with squamous NSCLC. The risk of grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia, hypertension, bleeding, proteinuria, rash, diarrhea, fatigue, headache, anorexia, and febrile neutropenia was significantly increased in the antiangiogenic agent combination groups as compared with the chemotherapy groups. Conclusion: The use of antiangiogenic agents in addition to chemotherapy is a valid option for the first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC. The benefit is restricted to patients with nonsquamous-cell tumors.
meta-analysis	ORT370331	"Primary Tumor Standardized Uptake Value Predicts Survival in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Primary Tumor Standardized Uptake Value Predicts Survival in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Background: The purpose of this study was to determine whether the pretreatment primary tumor standardized uptake value (SUV), as measured by positron emission tomography (PET), can add prognostic information for predicting survival in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Materials and Methods: 7 articles were identified by searching electronic databases. Statistical analysis was performed with RevMan 4.2.2. SUV measurement and SUV threshold for defining high SUV were studied dependently. For each publication, we first obtained an estimate of the relative risk (RR) for comparing patients with a low or a high SUV. Subsequently, we aggregated the individual RRs into a combined RR, using a fixed-effect model. Publication bias was assessed using a funnel plot. Results: The study included 7 clinical trials dedicated to HNSCC, involving 674 patients who underwent fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose-PET scanning before treatment. The combined RR from the 7 reports for the survival was 0.53 (95% confidence interval: 0.46-0.62). The funnel plot showed symmetrical distribution, indicating no evidence of any substantial publication bias. Conclusion: Our meta-analysis indicates that patients with HNSCC who have a primary tumor with a high SUV have poor survival; this should be further confirmed in a meta-analysis based on individual patient data."
research-article	ORT375391	"Postoperative Intensity-Modulated Radiotherapy Improved Survival in Lymph Node-Positive or Stage III Thoracic Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Postoperative Intensity-Modulated Radiotherapy Improved Survival in Lymph Node-Positive or Stage III Thoracic Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Background: The aim of this study was to retrospectively analyze the effect of postoperative intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) on recurrence and survival in lymph node-positive or stage III thoracic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (TESCC) patients, and evaluate its role in TESCC therapy. Methods: We enrolled 538 patients who underwent radical resection with (S + R) or without (S) postoperative IMRT. The median total postoperative IMRT dose was 60 Gy. The Kaplan-Meier method, log-rank test, and chi-square test were used for survival rate calculation, univariate analysis, and sites of failure analysis, respectively. Results: The 5-year overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival rates were 32.7 and 27.3%, respectively. The 5-year OS rates of lymph node-positive S and S + R patients were 28.4 and 38.8%, respectively (p &lt; 0.001). The 5-year OS rates of stage III S and S + R patients were 24.0 and 38.0%, respectively (p = 0.001). Postoperative IMRT resulted in significantly decreased intrathoracic and supraclavicular recurrence, and obviously delayed median local recurrence and systemic metastases. Systemic metastases increased following postoperative IMRT. Conclusion: Postoperative IMRT reduces local recurrence and improves survival in lymph node-positive or stage III TESCC patients, providing a rationale for selection criteria for postoperative IMRT in TESCC."
meta-analysis	ORT380776	"Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-C Expression as a Biomarker of Poor Prognosis in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-C Expression as a Biomarker of Poor Prognosis in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Meta-Analysis Background: Vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGF-C) is involved in the development and progression of tumor angio-/lymphangiogenesis. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether VEGF-C expression is an indicator of aggressiveness and poor prognosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Method: A meta-analysis was conducted to investigate the association between VEGF-C expression with clinicopathological characteristics and survival of ESCC patients. The dataset was defined by searching PubMed, Embase, Google Scholar, and the Cochrane database for appropriate articles published until April 2014. Result: The final analysis was made from 9 studies, including 656 ESCC patients. Positive VEGF-C expression was defined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or mRNA expression analysis. The results demonstrated that VEGF-C expression was significantly associated with advanced-stage disease (odds ratio (OR) = 2.29, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.37-3.84, P = 0.002), deeper tumor invasion, lymph node metastasis, and lymphatic invasion. The 5-year survival of VEGF-C expression-negative patients was found to be better than that of VEGF-C expression-positive patients (OR = 0.35, 95% CI = 0.21-0.58, P &lt; 0.0001). However, there was no significant association between the VEGF-C expression levels and either poorer tumor differentiation or vascular invasion. Conclusion: The results of the meta-analysis strongly indicate that VEGF-C expression could function as a marker for predicting the aggressiveness and prognosis of ESCC."
systematic-review	ORT433486	"A Systematic Review of Adjuvant Interventions for Radioiodine in Patients with Thyroid Cancer A Systematic Review of Adjuvant Interventions for Radioiodine in Patients with Thyroid Cancer Aims: The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of adjuvant interventions for radioiodine in patients with thyroid cancer. Materials and Methods: A systematic search was undertaken on July 9, 2014. RevMan 5 software was used to synthesize data. Results: 13 randomized controlled trials were included. The pooled risk ratio of 0.99 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.96-1.02, p = 0.58) indicated no significant difference in successful thyroid remnant ablation between recombinant human thyroid-stimulating hormone (rhTSH) and thyroid hormone withdrawal in 7 trials. The percentage of patients who had successful ablation was significantly higher in the oral-lithium group than in the control group (p = 0.017). A computerized decision aid improves informed decision-making in patients with early-stage papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) who are considering adjuvant radioiodine treatment (p &lt; 0.001). Amifostine pretreatment did not prevent parenchymal damage to the major salivary gland function after radioiodine treatment (p = 0.2461). Conclusions: The present systematic review suggests that rhTSH, lithium, and computerized decision aids maybe act as beneficial adjuvant interventions for radioiodine in patients with thyroid cancer; however, amifostine does not exhibit helpful effects in thyroid cancer patients treated with radioiodine."
meta-analysis	ORT439194	"Role of Aurora-A in Ovarian Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Role of Aurora-A in Ovarian Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Background: Recently, several studies have examined associations between Aurora-A expression and clinical outcome in patients with ovarian cancer, but yielded conflicting results with respect to survival. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of Aurora-A in ovarian cancer by performing a meta-analysis. Methods: PubMed, Cochrane library, Web of Science, Embase, Medline and Chinese BioMed Database (CBM) databases were searched systematically and only articles in which Aurora-A expression was detected by immunohistochemical staining were included. Hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were extracted and pooled for overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS). Results: Our results show that the pooled HR for OS was 1.40 (95% CI 0.82-1.98, p &lt; 0.01) by univariate analysis in 7 articles (1,028) and 0.32 (95% CI 0.04-0.615, p = 0.23) by multivariate analysis in 3 studies (155). The association between Aurora-A expression and DFS was also statistically significant in 5 studies (HR = 1.14, 95% CI 0.50-1.78, p &lt; 0.01). Conclusion: This present meta-analysis suggests that the Aurora-A expression may be associated with poor prognosis in patients with ovarian cancer. Furthermore, studies of larger scale and well-matched regimes are warranted to confirm the findings in the future."
meta-analysis	ORT440690	Comparison of Completion Thyroidectomy and Primary Total Surgery for Differentiated Thyroid Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Comparison of Completion Thyroidectomy and Primary Total Surgery for Differentiated Thyroid Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Background: The aim of this study was to compare the complication rates between completion thyroidectomy and primary total thyroidectomy for differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC). Methods: PubMed, the Web of Knowledge, and the China Journal Net were searched for studies concerning the treatment of DTC published in 1990-2014. A meta-analysis was performed to compare the effects of different treatments. Results: 7 studies with a total of 1,208 patients were included. There were no statistically significant differences regarding the presence of temporary recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) palsy, permanent RLN palsy, temporary hypocalcemia, permanent hypocalcemia, hematoma, and wound infection. Conclusions: Completion thyroidectomy can be performed with acceptable morbidity in select cases of DTC who could not be properly diagnosed perioperatively or who recurred after less than total thyroidectomy.
meta-analysis	ORT447372	"Safety of Denosumab Versus Zoledronic Acid in Patients with Bone Metastases: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Safety of Denosumab Versus Zoledronic Acid in Patients with Bone Metastases: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Introduction: Bone metastases lead to local bone destruction and skeletal complications. Bisphosphonates, particlulaly zoledronic acid (ZA), play a central role in the treatment of bone metastases. Some studies have shown that denosumab may delay and prevent SREs in metastatic bone disease more effectively than ZA; therefore, we systematically reviewed and assessed the safety of denosumab and ZA. Methods: The PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, Web of Science with Conference Proceedings, Elsevier, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) databases were searched up to October 2015. 2 independent reviewers extracted data from each eligible study using a standard protocol, and both fixed-effects and random-effects models were used to analyze and evaluate the data extracted from eligible articles. Results: 6 randomized controlled trials enrolling 13,733 patients were included. Occurrences of adverse events were generally similar between the denosumab and ZA groups except anemia and anorexia in patients with bone metastases and back pain and bone pain. However, occurrences of serious adverse events such as hypocalcaemia , renal adverse events , and new primary malignancy were significantly different between the denosumab and ZA groups. Only the occurrence of osteonecrosis of the jaw showed no significant difference between the denosumab and ZA groups in patients with bone metastases. Conclusion: Denosumab was safer in delaying or preventing skeletal-related events in patients with bone metastases and prevented pain progression compared to ZA in this meta-analysis."
meta-analysis	ORT448084	Association of the MTHFR Gene C677T Polymorphism with Breast Cancer in a Turkish Population Association of the MTHFR Gene C677T Polymorphism with Breast Cancer in a Turkish Population Background: Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. 1 in every 8 women in the United States have a lifetime risk of getting breast cancer. MTHFR is a key enzyme that regulates the folate metabolism which has an important role in DNA synthesis, repair, and methylation. The aim of the current study was to analyze the association between the MTHFR gene C677T (Ala222Val, rs1801133) polymorphism and breast cancer. Patients and Methods: 199 breast cancer patients and 195 healthy controls were included in this study. The MTHFR gene C677T polymorphism was analyzed using polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) methods. A meta-analysis including 707 breast cancer patients and 880 controls from Turkish populations was also carried out. Statistical analyses were performed using the &
case-report	ORT448699	Efficacy and Long-Term Safety of Everolimus in Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor Associated with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type I: Case Report Efficacy and Long-Term Safety of Everolimus in Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor Associated with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type I: Case Report Background: Approximately 10% of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NET) are associated with familial syndromes, with the most common type being multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1). However, the available evidence on how to treat NET comes from studies in sporadic NET. Case Report: Here we report the case of a 51-year-old male patient with a metastatic MEN-1-associated pancreatic NET and hypercalcemia related to primary hyperparathyroidism and tumor-secreted parathyroid-related protein. The patient was treated with everolimus, and showed complete resolution of hypercalcemia and tumor control for 3 years when he presented with pulmonary cryptococcosis and disease progression. Conclusion: This case report describes the activity of everolimus in a patient with MEN-1-associated pancreatic NET, its efficacy in treating malignant hypercalcemia associated with NET and the risk of opportunistic infections with prolonged use of this agent.
meta-analysis	ORT449138	"Prognostic Role of Lactate Dehydrogenase Expression in Urologic Cancers: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Prognostic Role of Lactate Dehydrogenase Expression in Urologic Cancers: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: The prognostic role of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in urinary system cancer is still controversial. Thus, we conducted a meta-analysis to assess the prognostic significance of LDH for patients with urinary system cancer. Methods: We searched the PubMed, Embase, Springer and CNKI databases for studies published from January 1991 to February 2015 associated with LDH and urinary system cancer. Study quality was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. After careful review, survival data were extracted from eligible studies. We used pooled hazard ratios (HRs) to estimate the effect of LDH on overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). Results: 44 studies meeting the criterion were included. High expression of LDH was significantly correlated with poor OS in urologic cancer (pooled HR 1.93, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.81-2.07; p &lt; 0.001). The pooled HRs showed significant difference in PFS between LDH over expression group with LDH low expression group (Pooled HR 1.95, 95% CI 1.61-2.36; p &lt; 0.001) in urologic cancer. Conclusion: High serum LDH is associated with OS and PFS in patients with urinary system cancer, and it is an effective biomarker of prognosis in patients with urologic cancer."
case-report	ORT449432	Conversion of Platinum-Etoposide-Resistant to Sensitive SCLC after Treatment with the Epi-Immunotherapeutic RRx-001: A Case Report Conversion of Platinum-Etoposide-Resistant to Sensitive SCLC after Treatment with the Epi-Immunotherapeutic RRx-001: A Case Report Background: The response to first-line platinum doublets (cisplatin/etoposide) in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) predicts the probability of subsequent response to second-line therapy. In general, the longer-lived the responses in first line, the better the outcome in second line, with the opposite prognosis for shorter-lived responses. Resistant SCLC is defined as relapse within 90 days of platinum-doublet treatment, and predictably correlates with shortened survival compared with sensitive disease, defined as relapse after 90 days. Case Report: We present a patient with platinum-resistant SCLC that was rechallenged with cisplatin/etoposide in the context of the clinical trial TRIPLE THREAT (NCT02489903) after treatment with, and progression on, the resistance-reversing anticancer agent RRx-001. Conclusion: The prolonged partial response of this platinum-resistant SCLC to reintroduced carboplatin/etoposide after RRx-001 belies and contradicts the prevailing orthodoxy in oncology that rechallenge with chemotherapy after the emergence of resistance is an exercise in futility and risk, which potentially exposes patients to toxicity without benefit.
review-article	ORT453085	Molecular Pathology: A Requirement for Precision Medicine in Cancer Molecular Pathology: A Requirement for Precision Medicine in Cancer The increasing importance of targeting drugs and check-point inhibitors in the treatment of several tumor entities (breast, colon, lung, malignant melanoma, lymphoma, etc.) and the necessity of a companion diagnostic (HER2, (pan)RAS, EGFR, ALK, BRAF, ROS1, MET, PD-L1, etc.) is leading to new challenges for surgical pathology. Since almost all the biomarkers to be specifically detected are tissue based, a precise and reliable diagnostic is absolutely crucial. To meet this challenge surgical pathology has adapted a number of molecular methods (semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry, fluorescence in situ hybridization, PCR and its multiple variants, (pyro/Sanger) sequencing, next generation sequencing (amplicon, whole exome, whole genome), DNA arrays, methylation analyses, etc.) to be applicable for formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. Reading a patient's tissue as ‘deeply' as possible and obtaining information on the morphological, genetic, proteomic and epigenetic background are the tasks of pathologists and molecular biologists and provide the clinicians with information relevant for precision medicine. Intensified cooperation between clinicians and pathologists will provide the basis of improved clinical drug selection and guide development of new cancer gene therapies and molecularly targeted drugs by research units and the pharmaceutical industry.
review-article	ORT477095	CARTs for Solid Tumors: Feasible or Infeasible? CARTs for Solid Tumors: Feasible or Infeasible? Adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor-engineered T cells (CARTs) is a novel approach to cancer therapy as CARTs combine with the antigen specificity of an antibody and the activating functions of T lymphocytes. Recent results from preclinical and clinical trials with CARTs for B-cell malignancies are exciting, although different groups selected different tumor-associated antigens, binding domains, and signal domains, which make up the chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) configuration. However, there are few clinical trials with CARTs for solid tumors compared to hematologic malignancies. In this brief review, we discuss the basic principles of CAR design and clinical studies of CARTs for solid tumors.
meta-analysis	ORT480518	"Association between IL-13 Gene rs20541 Polymorphism and Glioma Susceptibility: A Meta-Analysis Association between IL-13 Gene rs20541 Polymorphism and Glioma Susceptibility: A Meta-Analysis Objective: We performed a meta-analysis to estimate the association between IL-13 gene rs20541 (R130Q) polymorphism and the susceptibility of glioma. Patients and Methods: Potentially eligible studies published before February 1, 2016 were searched in 4 databases including PubMed, EMBASE, EBSCO, and Ovid. Odds ratios (ORs) and their corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were used to estimate the strength of relationship between the IL-13 gene rs20541 polymorphism and glioma susceptibility. Stata 11.0 software was used to perform the present meta-analysis. Results: In total, 10 case-control studies with 13 datasets including 3,123 cases and 5,390 controls were identified. A significant increase in glioma susceptibility was found in the dominant model (AA + AG vs. GG: OR = 1.14, 95% CI 1.01-1.29; P = 0.031). Significantly decreasing glioma susceptibility was found for Asians in the heterozygote comparison (AG vs. GG: OR = 0.74, 95% CI 0.55-0.99; P = 0.042) and the allele contrast genetic model (A vs. G: OR = 0.67, 95% CI 0.47-0.96; P = 0.028). By contrast, in Caucasians, a significant increase in glioma susceptibility was found in the dominant model (AA + AG vs. GG: OR = 1.25, 95% CI 1.11-1.41; P = 0.000). Conclusion: There may be a weak association between the IL-13 gene rs20541 polymorphism and glioma susceptibility, and the associations may be different between ethnicities."
meta-analysis	ORT481708	"Prognostic Value of miR-375 for Survival Outcomes in Various Cancers: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Prognostic Value of miR-375 for Survival Outcomes in Various Cancers: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: miR-375 plays a role in tumor progression; however, its potential as a prognostic factor in cancer remains unclear. This meta-analysis assessed the value of miR-375 as a global prognostic biomarker in human cancer. Methods: A systematic literature review was performed to retrieve publications with relevant survival data. Pooled hazard ratios (HRs) were calculated for low miR-375 expression. Publication bias was examined. Results: Data were extracted from 11 studies of 1,797 patients (low expression in 769 cases; high in 1,028 cases). The pooled HR for overall/cumulative survival (OS/CS) was 1.90 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.57-2.29) and the pooled HR for disease-free, recurrence-free or progression-free survival (DFS/RFS/PFS) was 1.93 (95% CI 1.39-2.67), indicating low miR-375 expression was associated with significantly poorer outcomes compared to normal/high miR-375 expression. Subgroup analysis revealed miR-375 might be a good prognostic factor in cancer, regardless of population, sample type, and cancer type. The prognostic value of miR-375 in non-Chinese patients was particularly high (pooled HR &gt; 2). Conclusion: Low miR-375 expression could represent a valuable prognostic marker in various cancers. Circulating miR-375 levels may provide a useful non-invasive, practical prognostic biomarker. However, the prognostic value of miR-375 in specific cancer types remains unclear; further studies are warranted."
meta-analysis	ORT484206	Response of Retinoic Acid in Patients with Radioactive Iodine-Refractory Thyroid Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Response of Retinoic Acid in Patients with Radioactive Iodine-Refractory Thyroid Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the response of retinoic acid (RA) in radioactive iodine (RAI)-refractory differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC). Methods: Systematic searches of MEDLINE (from inception to December 2016) and of EMBASE (from inception to December 2016) were performed for English-language publications on thyroid cancer treated with RA. Studies were classified according to the response criteria used: (1) 123I or 131I whole body scintigraphy (WBS), (2) serum thyroglobulin (Tg) level, (3) the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.0, and (4) World Health Organization (WHO) criteria. Results: Disease response rates as determined by WBS ranged widely between 6.2% and 46.1% with a pooled disease response rate of 27.6% (95% confidence interval: 21.7-34.0%). Response rates as determined by Tg level ranged from 56.6% to 83.3% (pooled response rate 61.3% (51.0-70.9%)), RECIST response rates from 0% to 45.5% (pooled response rate 17.0% (1.4-44.5%)), and according to WHO criteria, the pooled response rate was 30.8% (12.7-52.7%). Conclusions: A minority of patients with RAI-refractory DTC respond to RA treatment.
meta-analysis	ORT486418	"PARP (Poly(ADP-Ribose) Polymerase) Inhibitors in Platinum-Sensitive Recurrent Ovarian Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials PARP (Poly(ADP-Ribose) Polymerase) Inhibitors in Platinum-Sensitive Recurrent Ovarian Cancer: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: PARP (poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase) inhibitors are used more frequently in platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer. Methods: We conducted a meta-analysis to check the strength of evidence on the use of PARP inhibitors for relapsed platinum-sensitive ovarian tumors. Results: A total of 4 randomized controlled trials were included in our analysis with a total of 1,264 patients (PARP n = 780). Progression-free survival (PFS) was significantly better in the PARP group in BRCA-positive patients (hazard ratio (HR) 0.24, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.19-0.30; p &lt; 0.00001). PFS was significantly better in the PARP group in BRCA-negative patients (HR 0.52, 95% CI 0.36-0.75; p &lt; 0.00001). Similarly, we found a significant difference in overall survival (OS) between the two groups in BRCA-positive patients (HR 0.72, 95% CI 0.53-0.97, p= 0.03). Conclusion: PARP inhibitors in addition to standard platinum-based regimens along with subsequent maintenance therapy significantly improves PFS and OS with an acceptable side-effect profile in BRCA-positive women with recurrent, previously platinum-sensitive HGSOC."
systematic-review	ORT487085	"Burden of Oral Mucositis: A Systematic Review and Implications for Future Research Burden of Oral Mucositis: A Systematic Review and Implications for Future Research Background: Surprisingly little is known about the burden of oral mucositis (OM). We provide a systematic review of studies on the burden of OM (incidence, economic impact, health-related quality of life (HRQoL)). Methods: Systematic literature searches were made in BIOSIS, EMBASE, and MEDLINE. Inclusion criteria were studies on OM in hematology/oncology patients of ≥ 18 years, journal articles, English language, and published between 2000 and 2016; OM treatment studies were excluded. Quality assessment was performed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. Results: We screened 4,996 hits, and identified 68 studies of which 13 were without transparency on OM grading. The evidence level of 65 studies was rated ‘low' or ‘very low' in 58.5%, ‘moderate' in 20% and ‘high' in 21.5%. Mean value of incidence (7 studies) was 83.5% for all grades of OM with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. OM incidence for all grades in head and neck cancer patients was 59.4-100%. Considering the economic impact, 16 studies showed highly variable numbers. HRQoL was measured in 16 studies using 13 different instruments. Statistically significant changes in HRQoL scores were demonstrated. Conclusion: OM is common, burdensome, costly and imposes major reductions in HRQoL. However, from a quality standpoint, the level of current evidence in OM is disappointing. The field needs continued attention to address methodological challenges."
systematic-review	ORT490501	Implementation of a Systematic Literature Search Strategy in a National Breast Cancer Guideline: The Relevance of Systemic Therapy in Lymph Node Recurrent Disease Implementation of a Systematic Literature Search Strategy in a National Breast Cancer Guideline: The Relevance of Systemic Therapy in Lymph Node Recurrent Disease Purpose:Our aim was to implement a structured literature search using PICO (patient/intervention/comparison/outcome) questions and a standardized consensus method for the German Guideline ‘Detection, diagnostics, therapy and follow-up of Breast Cancer' using, as an example, the significance of systemic therapy in lymph node recurrent disease (LNRD). Methods: We defined specified PICO questions according to the clinical significance of a recommendation for systemic therapies in locoregional LNRD. A methodologist performed a systematic literature search including randomized controlled trials, systematic reviews and observational studies (2007-2016). In a consensus conference, the level of evidence and consensus was determined and the clinical recommendation was adopted. Results: In total 143 publications were identified according to the search strategy including 14 duplicates, which were excluded. 4 publications were included based on experts' choice. The team excluded 119 publications, leaving 14 that were then screened by a full text search. Finally, 1 publication was found to be of methodologically and clinically reliable content. The conclusion of this publication in favor of systemic therapy for LNRD received strong consent from the consensus conference. Conclusions: The literature search strategy using PICO questions helped to achieve a fast and standardized selection of publications. The recommendation concerning systemic treatment of LNRD was first implemented in the update of the German Breast Cancer guideline.
review-article	ORT490810	Expression Levels of Follicle-Stimulating Hormone Receptor and Implication in Diagnostic and Therapeutic Strategy of Ovarian Cancer Expression Levels of Follicle-Stimulating Hormone Receptor and Implication in Diagnostic and Therapeutic Strategy of Ovarian Cancer Background: Follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) has been shown to be expressed in ovarian cancer. Methods: Here we have summarized the potential therapeutic and diagnostic implication of FSHR in the ovarian cancers based on a review of the literature. Results: Current research indicates that FSHR comprises several variants: FSHR-1, FSHR-2, FSHR-3 and FSHR-4. Only FSHR-1 and FSHR-3 have biological roles. Although the level of FSHR differs in ovarian cancer tissues, few quantitative correlations have so far been reported on the expression levels of FSHR and carcinogenesis and progression of cancers. Conclusion: A comprehensive understanding of the role of FSHR in the ovarian cancers may help the search for novel therapeutic and diagnostic regimens and improve the management of cancer patients.
systematic-review	ORT490956	Is a Surgical Approach Justified in Metachronous Krukenberg Tumor from Gastric Cancer? A Systematic Review Is a Surgical Approach Justified in Metachronous Krukenberg Tumor from Gastric Cancer? A Systematic Review Background: The treatment of metachronous Krukenberg tumor (mKT) from gastric cancer remains unexplored. We performed a literature review to evaluate whether or not surgical treatment improves survival. Methods: A systematic review according to PRISMA guidelines was performed. Studies reporting on patients who underwent surgical treatment for mKT from gastric cancer were selected. Metachronous disease was divided as follows: confined to the ovaries, confined to the pelvis, or beyond the pelvis. Outcomes evaluated included overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), resection rate (R0), and factors predicting survival. Results: 13 retrospective reports fulfilled the selection criteria (512 patients). Most of the patients presented at a premenopausal age. The median presentation interval from gastrectomy ranged from 16 to 21.4 months. Median OS ranged between 9 and 36 months. 1-year OS ranged between 52.5 and 59%, and 3-years OS between 9.8 and 36.5%. Resection margin, peritoneal seeding, and chemotherapy regimen and cycles influenced survival. Conclusion: Surgical treatment and adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with mKT from gastric cancer seems to be associated with improved survival and is justified especially in young patients. Disease location and R0 resection should be considered when selecting patients.
review-article	ORT492342	Hematological Toxicity of Hypofractionated Radiotherapy: A Review of the Available Evidence Hematological Toxicity of Hypofractionated Radiotherapy: A Review of the Available Evidence Hypofractionated radiotherapy is commonly used to treat many cancers. The number of indications for this fractionation schedule is increasing. Knowledge of the potential hematological toxicity arising from hypofractionated irradiation is vital since many patients receive further systemic treatment. This review analyzes the available evidence on the effect of hypofractionated radiotherapy on hematological toxicity. However, radiobiological data on bone marrow responses to high doses of radiation per fraction are sparse. Additional biological effects may also play an significant role in bone marrow function and recovery after hypofractionated radiotherapy. Clinical data show a good early hematological tolerance of hypofractionated radiotherapy (both large field and for stereotactic body radiotherapy). There are, however, no data available that assess late hematological toxicity. Evidence on acute hematological toxicity after hypofractionated radiotherapy does not suggest any significant impact of altered fractionation on early treatment tolerance, although further research to assess this problem is needed. The effect of hypofractionation on late hematological tolerance is unknown because the data are still lacking.
meta-analysis	ORT492343	"Prognostic Value of microRNA-133a Expression and Its Clinicopathologic Significance in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Comprehensive Study Based on Meta-Analysis and the TCGA Database Prognostic Value of microRNA-133a Expression and Its Clinicopathologic Significance in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Comprehensive Study Based on Meta-Analysis and the TCGA Database Background: The role of microRNA-133a (miR-133a) in non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) is controversial. Thus, we conducted a comprehensive study based on meta-analysis and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Methods: Publications were searched in both English and Chinese databases, and meta-analysis was performed using Stata 12.0. The clinical value of miR-133a in NSCLC was investigated by collecting and calculating data from the TCGA database, and the statistical analysis was performed in R 3.5.0. Results: 5 studies with 364 cases were included in this meta-analysis. The combined pooled result showed that high expression of miR-133a was associated with a favorable survival outcome in NSCLC patients (hazard ratio 0.561, 95% confidence interval 0.396-0.794, p = 0.001). Meanwhile, a total of 984 NSCLC patients were extracted from the TCGA database. Results showed an area under the ROC curve value for miR-133a-3p of 0.902, and the expression of miR-133a-3p was linked with clinicopathologic parameters of NSCLC (p &lt; 0.05), including sex, age, social status, and lymph node metastasis. Conclusion: Our study indicated that miR-133a might act as a tumor suppressor and be a valuable independent prognostic and diagnostic biomarker for NSCLC, and NSCLC patients with high expression of miR-133 might have a better prognosis."
research-article	ORT492344	Neutrophil to Lymphocyte Ratio as a Prognostic Factor in European Patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-Mutant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Treated with Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Neutrophil to Lymphocyte Ratio as a Prognostic Factor in European Patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-Mutant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Treated with Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Background: A high neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) has been associated with adverse outcomes in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, information on epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutant advanced NSCLC is scarce, and most of the studies published have been conducted in Asian populations. We aimed to assess the influence of pretreatment NLR on progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in Western European patients treated with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Methods: A retrospective evaluation of 41 patients with EGFR-mutant advanced NSCLC treated with EGFR TKIs between June 2010 and May 2016 was carried out. The association between several prognostic factors including pretreatment NLR and survival was analyzed. Results: Median PFS and OS were 10.58 and 20.84 months, respectively. OS for patients with a high NLR was 7.4 months, compared to 24.6 months for patients with a low NLR (p = 0.0122). In multivariate analysis, poor performance status (ECOG PS ≥ 2) and presence of ≥ 3 metastatic locations were identified as significant independent prognostic factors for worse PFS. For OS, unfavorable prognostic factors were a high NLR and central nervous system metastasis at diagnosis. Conclusion: Pretreatment NLR is an independent prognostic factor for OS in Western European patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC treated with EGFR TKIs.
research-article	ORT492390	Why Do Cancer Patients Have Difficulties Evaluating the Need for a Second Opinion and What Is Needed to Lower the Barrier? A Qualitative Study Why Do Cancer Patients Have Difficulties Evaluating the Need for a Second Opinion and What Is Needed to Lower the Barrier? A Qualitative Study Background: Requesting a second opinion (SO) is common in oncology. The reasons and barriers for patients not seeking an SO have yet been to be investigated. Why do patients have difficulties evaluating their need for an SO and what could be done to minimize these barriers? Patients and Methods: A 2-stage qualitative study was conducted. 1) Participants were studied in 3 focus groups (FGs). The participants themselves analyzed and then grouped their statements into defined categories. 2) Results of the FGs were discussed with 7 experts from different professional backgrounds. The interviews were unstructured and detailed in the protocol. The statements underwent thematic analysis. Results: The following 4 main barriers were identified: 1) state of shock, 2) pressure of time, 3) sense of excessive demands and uncertainty triggered by information overload, 4) fear of jeopardizing the patient-physician relationship. The following 4 main suggestions for minimizing the barriers were identified: 1) written patient information, 2) improvement of communication, 3) patient empowerment (PE), 4) holistic approach. Conclusion: These barriers incapacitate the patients from evaluating the need for an SO. To minimize the barriers, PE, self-management support and shared decision making is recommended. While the implementation of these concepts advances, patients can be empowered by psycho-oncological assistance.
research-article	ORT492440	"Barriers to Using a Nationwide Skin Cancer Screening Program: Findings from Germany Barriers to Using a Nationwide Skin Cancer Screening Program: Findings from Germany Background: In 2008, a nationwide standardized and systematic skin cancer screening (SCS) service, which is globally unique, was implemented in Germany. We aimed to provide current data on SCS use, to explore barriers to SCS usage, and to identify population groups with lower rates of SCS use. Methods: We analyzed data from 2,635 participants (18-45 years) in the National Cancer Aid Monitoring on Sunbed Use. Data on SCS use, barriers to SCS, and sociodemographic characteristics were obtained. Chi-square tests and logistic regression analyses were performed to analyze the data. Data was weighted by age, sex, educational level, and federal state. Results: In total, 39.0% of participants reported having been screened for skin cancer at least once in their lifetime. The subjective importance of different barriers varied depending on the participants' educational level. SCS use was negatively associated with male sex (odds ratio (OR) = 0.63, p &lt; 0.001), low level of education (OR = 0.83, not significant), immigrant background (OR = 0.63; p &lt; 0.001), and having no employment. Conclusion: Although the SCS is part of the regular healthcare services offered in Germany, our data showed lower usage among certain population groups. Barriers relevant for these groups should be considered when developing measures to increase SCS use."
research-article	ORT492585	Risk Factors for Lymph Node Metastasis among Lymphovascular Space Invasion-Positive Women with Endometrioid Endometrial Cancer Clinically Confined to the Uterus Risk Factors for Lymph Node Metastasis among Lymphovascular Space Invasion-Positive Women with Endometrioid Endometrial Cancer Clinically Confined to the Uterus Introduction: We aimed to assess risk factors for lymph node (LN) metastasis among lymphovascular space invasion(LVSI)-positive women with pure endometrioid endometrial cancer (EC) clinically confined to the uterus. Methods: Medical records of women who underwent primary surgery for EC between 2007 and 2016 at either of 2 gynecological oncology centers were retrospectively reviewed. Patient data were analyzed with respect to LN involvement, and predictive factors for LN metastasis were investigated. Results: 280 patients with surgically staged endometrioid-type EC with LVSI were identified. LN involvement was detected in 88 patients (31.4%) with a systematic LN dissection. In multivariate analysis, elevated baseline serum CA 125 levels, deep myometrial invasion (MMI), adnexal involvement and positive peritoneal cytology were found to be independent risk factors for LN metastasis. In women without deep MMI and elevated baseline serum CA 125 levels, the rate of LN metastasis was 19%. The presence of solely deep MMI increased this probability up to 29.1%. The rate of LN metastasis was found to be 46.8% for women with both deep MMI and elevated baseline serum CA 125 levels. Conclusion: These findings may be useful in the decision-making process for LVSI-positive women who are unstaged.
research-article	ORT492586	"Patients' Perspective: What has Changed in Deciding about Breast-Conserving Surgery for Early-Stage Breast Cancer in Turkey? Patients' Perspective: What has Changed in Deciding about Breast-Conserving Surgery for Early-Stage Breast Cancer in Turkey? Background: This study aims to describe patients' perception of early breast cancer, factors influencing the choice of operation, patients' sources of information about the disease and the seriousness with which this information is considered, and to address what surgeons can do to enlighten their patients prior to decision-making. Methods: Patients were asked to complete a questionnaire consisting of 3 sections: The first section addressed influential factors during the decision-making process; the second pertained to the role of surgeons or health facilities in the process; and the third asked patients to revisit their initial choice of surgery. Results: 237 patients were included in the study. Statistical analyzes regarding demographic features showed that nulliparous, younger than 50 years, never or &lt;5 years married, highly educated, business-owning, employed, and stage I breast cancer patients preferred breast-conserving surgery (BCS) to mastectomy. Conclusion: Although the rate of BCS is a technical quality indicator for breast cancer centers, providing sufficient patient counseling, involving the patient in the decision-making process, and offering every possible surgical option are key to improving quality of life. Systematic counseling should be provided to breast cancer patients who have primary tumors that are eligible for BCS."
meta-analysis	ORT492827	Association between rs120963, rs152451, rs249935, rs447529, rs8053188, and rs16940342 Polymorphisms in the PALB2 Gene and Breast Cancer Susceptibility: A Meta-Analysis Association between rs120963, rs152451, rs249935, rs447529, rs8053188, and rs16940342 Polymorphisms in the PALB2 Gene and Breast Cancer Susceptibility: A Meta-Analysis Background: The aim of this study was to explore the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the rs120963, rs152451, rs249935, rs447529, rs8053188, and rs16940342 loci in the PALB2 gene and breast cancer risk. Methods: Studies investigating the association between SNPs in the PALB2 gene and breast cancer susceptibility were retrieved from the PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, CNKI (Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure), WanFang, and CBM (China Biology Medicine) databases. Eligible studies were screened according to inclusion/exclusion criteria and principles of quality evaluation. Meta-analysis was performed using Stata 14.0 software. Odds ratios with their corresponding 95% confidence intervals were pooled to assess the association between SNPs in the PALB2 gene loci rs249935, rs447529, rs8053188, rs16940342, rs152451, and rs120963 and breast cancer susceptibility. Results: A total of 9 case-control studies were eligible for this meta-analysis. SNPs in the PALB2 gene loci rs120963, rs249935, and rs447529 were significantly associated with an increased or decreased risk of breast cancer. No significant association was detected for rs152451, rs8053188, and rs16940342 under 4 genetic models. Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that SNPs in the PALB2 loci rs120963/rs249935/rs447529, but not in the other 3 loci (rs152451/rs8053188/rs16940342), may contribute to breast cancer susceptibility.
research-article	ORT493199	"Efficacy and Safety of Amrubicin in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Patients Beyond Third-Line Therapy Efficacy and Safety of Amrubicin in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Patients Beyond Third-Line Therapy Background: There are no standard cytotoxic treatments for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients beyond third-line therapy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of amrubicin in pretreated NSCLC patients. Methods: The records of NSCLC patients who received amrubicin monotherapy as a third or later line of chemotherapy at Shizuoka General Hospital between April 2007 and March 2015 were retrospectively reviewed. Tumor response was evaluated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Toxicities were evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0. Results: Overall, 69 patients were enrolled in this study; 16 patients were female and the median age was 67 years. The median number of treatment cycles was 3. The response rate was 7.2%, and the disease control rate was 63.8%. The median progression-free survival was 2.8 months. The median overall survival was 7.7 months. Hematological toxicities of ≥ grade 3 included leukopenia (59.4%) and neutropenia (62.3%). Non-hematological toxicities of ≥ grade 2 included anorexia (27.5%) and fatigue (24.6%). Conclusion: Although hematological toxicities were severe, these results suggested that amrubicin in NSCLC patients beyond third-line therapy shows sufficient clinical benefit."
review-article	ORT493401	Targeting Defects in the Cellular DNA Damage Response for the Treatment of Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Targeting Defects in the Cellular DNA Damage Response for the Treatment of Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Pancreatic cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer-related mortality in the Western world and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is by far the most common pancreatic cancer entity. Locally advanced or metastatic PDAC remains a major clinical challenge, and the prognosis of affected patients is dismal despite substantial research efforts in this area. Recent large-scale genomic analyses of PDAC revealed that KRAS is the most frequently mutated driver gene in this entity. In addition, a relatively large proportion of PDAC patients displays germline variants in genes involved in DNA repair, particularly DNA double-strand repair. Similarly, a sizable fraction of sporadic PDAC cases harbor mutations in genome maintenance genes, such as BRCA1, BRCA2, and ATM. While direct targeting of oncogenic KRAS is currently not possible in the clinical setting, these defects in DNA repair may open new therapeutic avenues. Here, we discuss the potential use of compounds that interfere with DNA repair and genome maintenance mechanisms for the treatment of PDAC. We particularly focus on the genotype-tailored use of compounds, such as PARP inhibitors, as well as ATR- and DNA-protein kinase catalytic subunit (PKcs) inhibitors.
review-article	ORT493437	Novel Targets in Pancreatic Cancer Therapy - Current Status and Ongoing Translational Efforts Novel Targets in Pancreatic Cancer Therapy - Current Status and Ongoing Translational Efforts Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC, pancreatic cancer) carries one of the poorest overall prognoses of all human malignancies known to date. Despite the introduction of novel therapeutic regimens, the outcome has not markedly improved over the past decades, the incidence rates are almost identical to the mortality rates, and PDAC is projected to soon become the second most common cause of cancer-related mortality in Western countries. Despite this clear medical need to develop novel therapeutic strategies against this dire malady, this need has so far not been addressed with sufficient institutional attention and support in terms of research funding and strategical programs. Given the still growing life expectancy and projected demographic changes with a growing proportion of senior citizens in many European societies, this discrepancy is likely to become even more pressing in the future. This article provides a brief overview of ongoing preclinical efforts to identify novel targets and, based on this, to develop novel strategies to treat advanced pancreatic cancer and improve survival and the quality of life of patients suffering from this malignancy.
review-article	ORT493473	Familial Pancreatic Cancer Familial Pancreatic Cancer Familial pancreatic cancer accounts for 10% of all patients with pancreatic cancer. Because the 5-year survival rate of pancreatic cancer is only 7%, screening programs for high-risk individuals are essential and might be advantageous. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma mostly shows symptoms at an advanced state and treatment is not efficient enough to cure most patients. People with hereditary tumor syndromes or their affected relatives can also be included in such screening programs. Besides the collection of data to investigate the background of the disease, these screening programs aim to diagnose and treat precursor lesions so that more dangerous, invasive lesions are prevented. These precursor lesions can be pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, and mucinous cystic neoplasm. This review summarizes the latest knowledge of pancreatic screening programs, shows the procedure of pancreatic cancer screening, and gives an overview of current guidelines.
review-article	ORT493554	Precursor Lesions of Pancreatic Cancer Precursor Lesions of Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the leading causes of cancer death. Although the treatment modalities are improving, the prognosis of PDAC continues to be poor. Therefore, early detection of PDAC or its precursor lesions may be the best way to improve patient survival. PDACs have several different precursor lesions, including pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasias (PanINs), intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs), intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasms (ITPNs), intraductal oncocytic papillary neoplasms (IOPNs), and mucinous cystic neoplasms (MCNs). PanINs cannot be identified using imaging modalities, while the other lesions are radiologically detectable. These precursor lesions are categorized based on structural and cytological atypia as low-grade and high-grade lesions. We discuss recent updates regarding histopathological and molecular pathological overviews of PDAC precursor lesions. Better understanding of such lesions may contribute to earlier detection of PDAC or its precursor lesions and improve PDAC patient survival.
review-article	ORT493868	Current Therapeutic Options for Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Current Therapeutic Options for Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Pancreatic cancer remains the fourth most common cause of cancer-related mortality and is a major health threat. The majority of cases are diagnosed at advanced disease stages, limiting the chances of long-term survival. Several new therapeutic regimens have been introduced into routine clinical practice in recent years and a plethora of novel approaches is currently undergoing preclinical and early clinical evaluation. This review discusses the current standards of care for systemic therapy of pancreatic cancer and gives a brief outlook on ongoing clinical trials.
research-article	ORT494031	Efficacy of Carboplatin/Paclitaxel-Based Radiochemotherapy in Locally Advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck Efficacy of Carboplatin/Paclitaxel-Based Radiochemotherapy in Locally Advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck Background: Cisplatin-based chemotherapy (CTX) is commonly used concurrently with radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. The value of CTX regimens other than cisplatin for locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck (LASCCHN) has not been well established. Here we compare the outcome of patients treated with different platinum-based chemotherapy regimens. Methods: Medical records from 104 patients with LASCCHN treated with radiochemotherapy (RCTX) between February 2013 and August 2016 were analyzed. Results: All patients were treated with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (51 definitive, 53 postoperative). The median total dose was 66.6 Gy and the median fraction dose was 1.8 Gy. 81 (78%) patients were administered cisplatin CTX, 23 (22%) patients received carboplatin and paclitaxel (CarboTaxol). The rate of recurrence was 38% in patients treated with cisplatin and 30% in CarboTaxol-treated patients (p = 0.6). Regarding the CTX regimens, event-free survival (EFS) was 37 versus 30 months (p = 0.6) and overall survival (OS) was 35 versus 28 months (p = 0.5) in cisplatin group versus CarboTaxol group, respectively. Significantly higher grade 3/4 acute toxicity in terms of dysphagia was observed following cisplatin-based RCTX (p = 0.002). In multivariable analysis, females and patients with early primary tumors (T1-2) have longer EFS and OS, regardless the CTX regimen. Conclusions: Primary or adjuvant RCXT with CarboTaxol is a safe and effective treatment alternative for LASCCHN patients with contraindication to cisplatin-based RCTX.
case-report	ORT494067	Uterine Adenosarcoma Uterine Adenosarcoma Uterine adenosarcoma is a rare malignancy. It is defined as a biphasic tumor composed of both sarcomatous stroma and benign epithelium. While the sarcomatous component usually is a low-grade homologous uterine sarcoma, the epithelium most often consists of endometrium-like cells. If the sarcomatous part occupies more than 25% of the tumor volume, the situation is referred to as sarcomatous overgrowth - accounting for about 10% of cases. While adenosarcoma usually may be considered a tumor of low malignant potential, the sarcomatous overgrowth most often presents as high-grade sarcoma and is associated with aggressive clinical behavior. Adenosarcomas stage I without sarcomatous overgrowth have a rather good prognosis, with a 5-year overall survival up to 80%. For treatment, complete surgical removal is advocated. Adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy are not defined. Recurrences should again be treated surgically, attempting to achieve complete tumor resection. While the optimum medical treatment for relapsed and metastasized adenosarcomas has yet to be found, chemotherapy and endocrine therapy are potential options.
research-article	ORT494093	Electrochemotherapy in the Treatment of Breast Cancer Metastasis to the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue - Multicenter Experience Electrochemotherapy in the Treatment of Breast Cancer Metastasis to the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue - Multicenter Experience Introduction: Breast cancer is responsible for more than 50% of cutaneous metastases. One of the treatment options is electrochemotherapy (ECT). It is an effective method of local tumor ablation through the application of electroporation. The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate a response to the treatment in our group of patients. Methods: Between February 2015 and October 2016, in 3 centers in Poland, 47 ECT procedures were performed in 38 patients with metastasis of breast cancer to the skin. Results: At 12 weeks after the procedures, 71% of patients showed a positive response to the treatment (42% with complete response, and 29% with partial response). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that only the estrogen receptor status and the size of the metastatic lesion were predictive of overall response (p = 0.0243 and p = 0.03716, respectively). Conclusion: The results of our study demonstrate a high effectiveness of ECT in the treatment of cutaneous metastasis from breast cancer. This method, although used for palliative treatment, brings a significant improvement in the quality of life of patients.
review-article	ORT494225	Low-Grade Endometrial Stromal Sarcoma - a Review Low-Grade Endometrial Stromal Sarcoma - a Review Like other uterine sarcomas, low-grade endometrial stromal sarcomas (LG-ESS) are a very rare tumor entity. In the past, research studies therefore discussed the various different types of the disease in combination. In addition, the classification of endometrial stromal tumors presented difficulties for quite some time so that in earlier studies it was not always possible to precisely distinguish between LG-ESS, high-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, and undifferentiated uterine sarcoma. For LG-ESS, surgery with hysterectomy and adnexectomy is the first-line treatment. The benefits of lymphadenectomy and tumor debulking are unclear. Endocrine therapy with gestagens and aromatase inhibitors is under discussion to provide adjuvant treatment for patients with advanced stages of the disease. As radiotherapy only provides locoregional control, and in view of the usually good prognosis of patients with LG-ESS, its benefits need to be weighed against its side effects. In the case of recurrence, repeat surgery is the first choice. Further research studies viewing LG-ESS as a distinct entity are needed in order to improve treatment options for patients with LG-ESS.
review-article	ORT494335	Uterine Carcinosarcomas - Diagnosis and Management Uterine Carcinosarcomas - Diagnosis and Management Uterine carcinosarcomas are rare tumors that account for less than 5% of all uterine malignancies. These tumors (previously called malignant mixed Müllerian tumors) are dedifferentiated carcinomas that comprise carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements and arise from a single malignant clone. They are considered a high-risk variant of endometrial adenocarcinoma because carcinosarcomas share more similarities in epidemiology, risk factors, and clinical behavior with endometrial carcinoma than with uterine sarcomas. The clinical features, diagnosis, staging, and treatment of uterine carcinosarcoma will be discussed in this review.
review-article	ORT495424	Palliative Care in Patients with Hematological Malignancies Palliative Care in Patients with Hematological Malignancies Patients with hematologic malignancies (HM) nowadays rarely receive palliative or hospice care, and studies on potential effects of integrated palliative care are rare. This narrative review provides a comprehensive overview on their current end-of-life care, first data on integrated specialist palliative care (SPC) and potential barriers. Symptom burden and distress in patients with HM seem to be comparable to other cancer patients, but their performance status and specific symptoms are even worse. Prolongation of life usually remains the main focus until the last days or weeks of life. Their chance to die in hospital is twice as high, but their chance to receive specialist palliative or hospice care is only half of that of other cancer patients. Prospective studies indicate a high acceptability and positive effects of integrated SPC, e.g. clarification of treatment goals, stabilization of quality of life, decreased depression, anxiety, symptom burden, and post-traumatic stress disorders. Interdisciplinary cooperation, timely discussions about SPC referral, and indicators to ‘flag' patients in need for SPC are important, but they are largely missing. In conclusion, further studies have to evaluate factors identifying patients with HM in need for SPC. Further models of early integrated palliative care should be evaluated in prospective studies and established in daily clinical practice.
review-article	ORT495699	Early Integration of Palliative and Oncological Care: Con Early Integration of Palliative and Oncological Care: Con For almost a decade, ‘early integration' has become a buzzword in the palliative care community. Can this still be an issue of controversy? The goals of care in palliative medicine are beyond any criticism and in fact should be, at least in theory, goals of good oncological care. However, the reality presents a different picture. The care of cancer patients requires improvement, and the studies on the early integration of palliative care (EIPC) reveal deficits in the oncological practice. However, the limitations and methodological weaknesses of these EIPC studies are insufficiently analyzed and discussed. The main criticisms relate to the incomplete definition of primary endpoints, published analyses deviating from the study protocols and insufficient consideration for multiple testing. If this criticism is justified, a possible consequence would be to overrate the achievable effects of EIPC and to limit the use of these studies in guiding policies. Improving the care of cancer patients by fostering their primary care by oncologists could provide one of the alternative approaches, but needs to be evaluated in future studies. Unmet needs in physical, psychic, spiritual or social care need to be addressed. Whether this requires a multiprofessional team in all cases is another issue of discussion.
review-article	PAN224147	Detection of Gallstones in Acute Pancreatitis: When and How? Detection of Gallstones in Acute Pancreatitis: When and How? The detection and management of bile duct stones in acute pancreatitis have improved considerably. Now it is possible to identify non-invasively stones in the duct before definitive treatment. Recently new evidence has confirmed that the indication for early endoscopic sphincterotomy should be severe acute pancreatitis with evidence of bile duct obstruction. This review analyses the evidence that defines current best practice in this area.
review-article	PAN280292	The Extracellular Matrix and Cell Migration The Extracellular Matrix and Cell Migration As we know all too well, pancreatic cancer has a very poor prognosis largely due to its early tendency to invade, locally and distantly. Recently, scientists in the field have increasingly focused on the desmoplastic reaction, which is characteristic of most pancreatic cancers. This reaction is associated with proliferation of fibroblastic cells, sometimes outnumbering local tumor cells, and consists of abundant extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Importantly, the processes of invasion and metastasis take place within this tumor microenvironment. Stroma and tumor cells exchange signals to modify the local ECM, which subsequently stimulates cell migration and promotes proliferation and survival. Even though recognition of the significance of these microenvironment interactions exists, knowledge on the mechanisms of the interplay among pancreatic cells, myofibroblasts, and the ECM is lacking. Therefore, this ‘Pancreatology and the Web’ focuses on websites that provide information on the ECM and cell migration.
review-article	PAN283646	Primers on Molecular Pathways – Cycling toward Pancreatic Cancer Primers on Molecular Pathways – Cycling toward Pancreatic Cancer Human cells divide and proliferate during the early stages of life to support development, and throughout adult life to support normal cellular turnover. Each dividing cell follows an orderly and tightly regulated series of events known as the cell cycle. This process ensures proper cellular division that maintains DNA and chromosomal integrity and responds appropriately to external signals which communicate the level of demand for new cells. In cancer, genetic mutations leading to the overexpression of proteins which support cell cycle progression, or the downregulation of proteins involved in cell cycle inhibition contributes to the dysregulated cellular division and proliferation of malignant cells. The resulting uninhibited cellular proliferation provides ample opportunity for additional genetic mutations that lead to tumor progression. In the following review, we provide a brief introduction to the cell cycle and a discussion of the mechanism underlying the dysregulation of the cell cycle in human cancer. We pay particular attention to pancreatic adenocarcinoma, an aggressive tumor that has a 5-year survival rate of 3–5%, and is the fourth leading cause of cancer mortality in the US.
review-article	PAT449254	Hands-On Experience: Accreditation of Pathology Laboratories according to ISO 15189 Hands-On Experience: Accreditation of Pathology Laboratories according to ISO 15189 Accreditation is a procedure by which an authoritative body gives formal recognition that an organization is competent to carry out specific tasks according to certain standards. Accreditation of pathology laboratories according to ISO 15189 is now becoming more and more a matter of course in continental Europe. This review describes some practical experience aspects with our own pathology laboratory accreditation according to ISO 15189, and outlines the advantages, addresses critical points, and discusses certain caveats of this process.
review-article	PAT477736	Increased Risk of Atherosclerosis in Patients with Sarcoidosis Increased Risk of Atherosclerosis in Patients with Sarcoidosis Sarcoidosis is a systemic granulomatous disease of unknown etiology. Recent studies demonstrated that its pathogenesis is related with enhanced oxidative stress (protein carbonylation and lipid peroxidation) and alterations in the circulating lipid profile. Alterations of lipid metabolism (including the reduction in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and apolipoprotein A1 concentrations) induce plasma membrane, bronchial and lung capillary endothelial cell damage in sarcoidosis patients. Dyslipidemia is associated with increased oxidative stress, diminished overall antioxidative protection and increased risk for atherosclerosis. Very recently increased cardiovascular biomarkers (in particular alterations of lipoprotein A and d-dimer concentrations) were observed in sarcoidosis patients, mainly in those with a high risk of atherosclerosis. Chitotriosidase, a biomarker of sarcoidosis activity and macrophage activation, is increased in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with sarcoidosis as well as in patients with atherosclerosis. Lipidomics and other recent methodologies allowed the discovery of proteins involved in lipid metabolism and sarcoidosis pathogenesis, such as serum amyloid A, a biomarker of sarcoidosis activity, involved in innate immune response, inflammation and apolipoprotein metabolism. In this review lipid metabolism alteration and atherosclerosis risk in sarcoidosis patients were discussed in order to contribute to this novel and interesting research topic.
review-article	PAT477773	Tumor Heterogeneity in Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Tumor Heterogeneity in Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is one of the deadliest malignancies worldwide, mainly due to frequent diagnosis at an advanced stage and its strong chemoresistance. Tumor heterogeneity is evident at the histological level, both between tumors and even within a tumor. Recent high-throughput analyses have confirmed that intertumor heterogeneity is greater than intratumor heterogeneity that is mostly driven by successive catastrophic genetic events in the early stage and by epigenetic modifications in the metastatic stage. While this heterogeneity may complicate the search for a universal cure, these analyses have distinguished several subtypes at the genomic, transcriptomic, and metabolomic levels that offer, for some, new therapeutic opportunities.
review-article	PAT478662	Role of Next-Generation Sequencing as a Diagnostic Tool for the Evaluation of Bone and Soft-Tissue Tumors Role of Next-Generation Sequencing as a Diagnostic Tool for the Evaluation of Bone and Soft-Tissue Tumors Bone and soft-tissue tumors are in general rare. Diagnosing these tumors is challenging based on the significant number of different tumor entities, the rareness of these tumors, and the considerable morphological heterogeneity which can be found within a single tumor entity. Considering that more than half of the described soft-tissue tumors and approximately 25% of the bone tumors harbor recurrent genetic alterations, the use of auxiliary molecular examinations should be strongly considered. Molecular analyses are important to confirm the diagnosis, to guide treatment, to provide information about prognosis, and to allow patient recruitment for basket trials based on the molecular signature of a tumor. In addition, novel molecular alterations detected by next-generation sequencing (NGS) obtain further insights into the pathogenesis of these rare tumors and allow a more detailed genetic classification. Based on our single-center results of NGS using the Ion AmpliSeq Cancer Hotspot Panel v2 and the Ion AmpliSeq Comprehensive Cancer Panel (Thermo Fisher Scientific) for mutational analyses as well as the Archer FusionPlex Sarcoma Kit (ArcherDX, Inc) to detect gene fusions in 26 genes since early 2016, we have experienced NGS as a very sensitive method to detect genetic alterations. In our experience, the use of the Archer FusionPlex Sarcoma Kit is superior to fluorescent in situ hybridization as an auxiliary tool in the routine workup of soft-tissue and bone tumors.
case-report	PAT490798	Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma from Imperial Rome (1st to 2nd Centuries AD) Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma from Imperial Rome (1st to 2nd Centuries AD) Objective: This study describes and discusses a rare case of metastatic carcinoma that affected the skeleton of an adult male recovered in the necropolis of Casal Bertone in Rome (Italy). The necropolis, which dates back to the Imperial Age (1st to 2nd century AD), is located near some residential structures and a large place identified as a fullery (fullonica). Methods: Anthropological and paleopathological studies of the skeletal remains were performed via careful macroscopic, microscopic, radiological (X-ray and CT scan), and histological investigation. Results: The skeleton displayed mixed osteoclastic and osteoblastic lesions that mainly involved the axial bones, in particular the sternum, the ribs, the spine, and the scapular and pelvic girdles. The anatomical distribution and the destructive and proliferative nature of the lesions suggested diffuse metastases arising from a soft-tissue primary cancer. The age and sex of the individual, as well as radiographic and histological pictures, allowed diagnosis of an advanced prostate cancer with extensively diffused bone metastases. Conclusion: At present, this is the only case of prostate cancer from the Imperial Age recovered in Rome.
case-report	PAT492431	Airway-Centered Pleuroparenchymal Fibroelastosis Associated with Non-Necrotizing Granulomas: A Rare New Entity Airway-Centered Pleuroparenchymal Fibroelastosis Associated with Non-Necrotizing Granulomas: A Rare New Entity Pleuroparenchymal fibroelastosis is a rare form of upper-lobe-dominant progressive pulmonary fibrosis characterized histologically by visceral pleural thickening with collagenous fibrosis, subpleural elastosis, and intra-alveolar collagenous fibrosis. It was first described 25 years ago by Amitani et al. This report firstly describes a new variant or rare phenotype of PPFE with airway involvement, minimal pleuroparenchymal connections, and non-necrotizing granulomas.
review-article	PHA278205	"In vivo Evidence of γ-Tocotrienol as a Chemosensitizer in the Treatment of Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer In vivo Evidence of γ-Tocotrienol as a Chemosensitizer in the Treatment of Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer γ-Tocotrienol (γT3) is known to selectively kill prostate cancer (PCa) cells and to sensitize the cells to docetaxel (DTX)-induced apoptosis. In the present study, the pharmacokinetics of γT3 and the in vivo cytotoxic response of androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPCa) tumor following γT3 treatment were investigated. Here, we investigated these antitumor effects for PCa tumors in vivo. The pharmacokinetic and tissue distribution of γT3 after exogenous γT3 supplementation were examined. Meanwhile, the response of the tumor to γT3 alone or in combination with DTX were studied by real-time in vivo bioluminescent imaging and by examination of biomarkers associated with cell proliferation and apoptosis. After intraperitoneal injection, γT3 rapidly disappeared from the serum and was selectively deposited in the AIPCa tumor cells. Administration of γT3 alone for 2 weeks resulted in a significant shrinkage of the AIPCa tumors. Meanwhile, further inhibition of the AIPCa tumor growth was achieved by combined treatment of γT3 and DTX (p &lt; 0.002). The in vivo cytotoxic antitumor effects induced by γT3 seem to be associated with a decrease in expression of cell proliferation markers (proliferating cell nuclear antigen, Ki-67 and Id1) and an increase in the rate of cancer cell apoptosis [cleaved caspase 3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase]. Additionally, the combined agents may be more effective at suppressing the invasiveness of AIPCa. Overall, our results indicate that γT3, either alone or in combination with DTX, may provide a treatment strategy that can improve therapeutic efficacy against AIPCa while reducing the toxicity often seen in patients treated with DTX."
review-article	PHA284581	Alpha-2c-Adrenergic Receptors Contribute to Basal Nasal Patency in the Anesthetized Cat Alpha-2c-Adrenergic Receptors Contribute to Basal Nasal Patency in the Anesthetized Cat Background: Nasal congestion is the most troublesome symptom associated with a variety of upper airway diseases, including allergic rhinitis and the common cold. A better understanding of the mechanisms that regulate nasal cavity caliber may engender the development of novel treatment strategies. It is well accepted that α-adrenergic (both α1 and α2) mechanisms play a fundamental role in the control and maintenance of basal nasal patency. JP-1302 is a selective α2c-subtype antagonist that has been recently described in the scientific literature. Thus, we sought to examine the potential effects of this new pharmacological tool on basal nasal patency. Methods: Using acoustic rhinometry, we studied the activity of the selective α2c-antagonist JP-1302 on nasal cavity volumes in an anesthetized cat. Cumulative concentrations of JP-1302 were applied directly into the right nasal cavity. Changes in the nasal cavity geometry of the drug-treated naris relative to the untreated left nasal cavity were determined. In separate studies, the nonselective α2-antagonist yohimbine and the nonselective α1-antagonist prazosin were run as comparators. Systolic blood pressure was measured at the hind leg, using an ultrasonic Doppler flow detector. Results: JP-1302 (0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0%) administered by the intranasal route decreased nasal cavity volumes from baseline values by 17, 25, 40 and 40%, respectively. Yohimbine (0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0%) decreased volumes by 19, 36, 46 and 53%, and topical administration of the nonselective α1-antagonist prazosin (0.001, 0.003, 0.01, 0.03 and 0.1%) decreased volumes by 6, 47, 56, 64 and 71%, respectively. JP-1302, yohimbine and prazosin, at the dose level tested, did not alter the blood pressure. Conclusions: The present set of experiments indicates that both α1- and α2-adrenergic receptors are involved in the maintenance of basal nasal patency in the cat. Moreover, α2c-receptors may play a significant role in the sympathetic control of upper airway function.
research-article	PHA348572	"In vitro Activity of Doripenem plus Fosfomycin against Drug-Resistant Clinical Blood Isolates In vitro Activity of Doripenem plus Fosfomycin against Drug-Resistant Clinical Blood Isolates The in vitro activity of doripenem in combination with fosfomycin was evaluated against a wide range of clinical blood isolates. Bacterial isolates of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA; n = 39), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (n = 18), multidrug-resistant Escherichia coli (n = 10), Enterobacter cloacae (n = 3) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (n = 5) were investigated. For synergism testing the checkerboard test was applied and determined by calculation of the fractional inhibitory concentration index. Checkerboard results were verified by time-kill curve tests on selected isolates. Among MRSA, E. coli and K. pneumoniae, 94.9, 80 and 100% of isolates demonstrated synergism, respectively. Selected isolates demonstrated synergism in time-kill curve tests. P. aeruginosa isolates demonstrated no interaction in all isolates. Doripenem plus fosfomycin shows high efficacy with promising results in vitro."
systematic-review	PHA369170	Interaction of Green Tea Catechins with Breast Cancer Endocrine Treatment: A Systematic Review Interaction of Green Tea Catechins with Breast Cancer Endocrine Treatment: A Systematic Review Recent data have shown strong chemopreventive and possibly cancer chemotherapeutic effects of green tea polyphenols and EGCG against breast cancer. This systematic review aims to synthesize data on the possible interaction of green tea catechins with breast cancer endocrine treatment. Electronic databases were searched with the appropriate search terms. Experimental trials suggest a synergistic interaction of green tea catechins with tamoxifen or raloxifene in the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive and estrogen receptor-negative breast cancer through estrogen receptor-dependent and -independent mechanisms. No evidence of an interaction of green tea catechins with aromatase inhibitors or fulvestrant has been reported. As green tea catechins are natural compounds with a rather favorable safety profile, the strategy of co-administrating green tea catechins with tamoxifen seems to be a rational approach in chemoprevention, adjuvant and metastatic breast cancer treatment that needs further investigation. i 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel
research-article	PHA371890	S-777469, a Novel Cannabinoid Type 2 Receptor Agonist, Suppresses Itch-Associated Scratching Behavior in Rodents through Inhibition of Itch Signal Transmission S-777469, a Novel Cannabinoid Type 2 Receptor Agonist, Suppresses Itch-Associated Scratching Behavior in Rodents through Inhibition of Itch Signal Transmission We have previously reported that S-777469 [1-([6-ethyl-1-(4-fluorobenzyl)-5-methyl-2-oxo-1,2-dihydropyridine-3-carbonyl]amino)-cyclohexanecarboxylic acid], a novel cannabinoid type 2 receptor (CB2) agonist, significantly suppressed compound 48/80-induced scratching behavior in mice in a dose-dependent manner when it was administered orally. Here, we demonstrated that the inhibitory effects of S-777469 on compound 48/80-induced scratching behavior are reversed by pretreatment with SR144528, a CB2-selective antagonist. In addition, we investigated the effects of S-777469 on itch-associated scratching behavior induced by several pruritogenic agents in mice and rats. S-777469 significantly suppressed scratching behavior induced by histamine or substance P in mice or by serotonin in rats. In contrast, the H1-antihistamine fexofenadine clearly inhibited histamine-induced scratching behavior but did not affect scratching behavior induced by substance P or serotonin. Moreover, S-777469 significantly inhibited histamine-induced peripheral nerve firing in mice. In conclusion, these results suggest that S-777469 produces its antipruritic effects by inhibiting itch signal transmission through CB2 agonism.
research-article	PHA445194	Decreased Linezolid Serum Concentrations in Three Critically Ill Patients: Clinical Case Studies of a Potential Drug Interaction between Linezolid and Rifampicin Decreased Linezolid Serum Concentrations in Three Critically Ill Patients: Clinical Case Studies of a Potential Drug Interaction between Linezolid and Rifampicin Linezolid is a valuable treatment option for treating infections caused by multi-resistant gram-positive pathogens. Lack of effective linezolid levels due to the co-administration of rifampicin has been described in healthy subjects. However, the clinical significance of this potential drug interaction (DI) for critically ill patients is still unclear. This was a retrospective analysis of 3 critically ill patients with the combination therapy of linezolid and rifampicin or rifampicin pre-treatment. Despite increasing the dose of linezolid, the majority of observed linezolid trough concentrations in all 3 patients were below 2 mg/l. Furthermore, linezolid trough concentrations remained below 2 mg/l after discontinuation of rifampicin. This potential DI between linezolid and rifampicin could lead to treatment failure. Therefore, we strongly recommend that linezolid serum concentrations be monitored in patients with rifampicin co-administration or rifampicin pretreatment.
review-article	PHA452340	Tanshinone IIA Affects Autophagy and Apoptosis of Glioma Cells by Inhibiting Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase/Akt/Mammalian Target of Rapamycin Signaling Pathway Tanshinone IIA Affects Autophagy and Apoptosis of Glioma Cells by Inhibiting Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase/Akt/Mammalian Target of Rapamycin Signaling Pathway Objective: To test the effects of Tanshinone IIA (Tan IIA) on cell viability, cycle, apoptosis, and autophagy of human glioma cell U251 by regulating phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signal pathway. Methods: Tan IIA and PI3K agonist (740 Y-P) were used to treat glioma cells U251. MTT assay was used to assess cell viability and flow cytometry was used to detect cell apoptosis and cell cycle. The expressions of apoptosis-related proteins (Bcl-2 and Bax), autophagy-related proteins (LC3B and Beclin 1) and PI3K/Akt/mTOR signal pathway-associated proteins (p-PI3K, p-Akt and p-mTOR) were evaluated by Western blotting. Results: Tan IIA decreased the expression of p-PI3K and p-Akt proteins, inhibited cell viability and promoted apoptosis. Meanwhile, the expression of Bax increased, while the expression of Bcl-2 decreased. In addition, Tan IIA promoted autophagy in U251 glioma cells and raised the expression of LC3B and Beclin 1. However, 740 Y-P played a reversed role of Tan IIA in cell viability, cycle, apoptosis, and autophagy of U251 cells. Conclusion: Tan IIA could suppress the viability of U251 cells and induce cell apoptosis and autophagy, which might be related to the inhibition of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR signal pathway.
review-article	PHA477667	MiR-490-5p Suppresses Cell Proliferation and Invasion by Targeting BUB1 in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Cells MiR-490-5p Suppresses Cell Proliferation and Invasion by Targeting BUB1 in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Cells Objective: To verify that miR-490-5p could influence hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells' proliferation, invasion, cycle, and apoptosis by targeting BUB1. Methods: Quantitative real time-PCR (QRT-PCR) was used to determine the miR-490-5p expression. Immunohistochemistry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot were employed to detect BUB1 and transforming growth factor-beta (TGFβ/Smad) signaling-related proteins expression in hepatic tissues and cells. The luciferase assay was used to confirm the targeting relationship between miR-490-5p and BUB1. The Cell Counting Kit-8, colony formation, Transwell invasion, scratch healing assays, and flow cytometry analysis were conducted to evaluate HCC cells proliferation, invasion, migration, and apoptosis alteration after transfection. Results: In HCC tissues and cells, lower expression of miR-490-5p was detected, while BUB1 was overexpressed than controls. The upregulation of miR-490-5p inhibited BUB1 expression and the overexpression of miR-490-5p or the under-expression of BUB1 inhibited HCC cells proliferation, migration, invasion, and increased the apoptosis rate. Conclusion: MiR-490-5p could regulate TGFβ/Smad signaling pathways by inhibiting BUB1, which could then inhibit HCC cells proliferation, invasion, and migration as well as decrease cell viability and increase apoptosis.
research-article	PHA495212	In vitro Inhibitory Effects of Isofraxidin on Human Liver Cytochrome P450 Enzymes In vitro Inhibitory Effects of Isofraxidin on Human Liver Cytochrome P450 Enzymes Isofraxidin is a Coumarin compound widely distributed in plants, such as the Umbelliferae or Chloranthaceae, and it possesses numerous pharmacological activities. However, whether isofraxidin affects the activity of human liver cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes remains unclear. In this study, the inhibitory effects of isofraxidin on the 8 human liver CYP isoforms (i.e., 1A2, 3A4, 2A6, 2E1, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, and 2C8) were investigated in vitro using human liver microsomes. The results showed that isofraxidin inhibited the activity of CYP1A2, 3A4, and 2E1, with IC50 values of 23.01, 15.49, and 15.98 µmol/L, respectively, but that other CYP isoforms were not affected. Enzyme kinetic studies showed that isofraxidin was not only a noncompetitive inhibitor of CYP3A4 but also a competitive inhibitor of CYP1A2 and 2E1, with Ki values of 7.91, 10.14, and 9.30 µmol/L, respectively. In addition, isofraxidin is a time-dependent inhibitor for CYP3A4 with Kinact/KI value of 0.047/12.33 µmol/L–1min–1. The in vitro studies of isofraxidin with CYP isoforms indicate that isofraxidin has the potential to cause pharmacokinetic drug interactions with other coadministered drugs metabolized by ­CYP1A2, 3A4, and 2E1. Further clinical studies are needed to evaluate the significance of this interaction.
review-article	PHG294149	Applying a Theory-Based Framework to Understand Public Knowledge of Genetic Risk Factors: A Case for the Distinction between How-To Knowledge and Principles Knowledge Applying a Theory-Based Framework to Understand Public Knowledge of Genetic Risk Factors: A Case for the Distinction between How-To Knowledge and Principles Knowledge Objective: Using E.M. Rogers’s knowledge framework as presented in his seminal innovation-decision process, this paper aims to present an overview of the general public’s knowledge of genetics. It also makes a first attempt to examine the statistical validity of this framework. Methods: A sample of 2,500 members of the Dutch general population was presented with a questionnaire containing measures of 3 increasingly complex forms of knowledge: awareness knowledge, (practical) how-to knowledge and (theoretical) principles knowledge. Results: The general public seems to be moderately aware of genetic risk factors for multifactorial diseases. In general, how-to knowledge seems fair, whereas principles knowledge is limited and superficial. Additional analyses provided empirical evidence for the distinction between awareness knowledge, how-to knowledge and principles knowledge. Conclusion: The innovation-decision process, and specifically Rogers’s knowledge framework, provides a useful tool for public education in genetics. Future research may build upon and extend our findings by examining the persuasion, decision, implementation, and possibly the confirmation stages of the innovation-decision process concerning genetic education.
review-article	PHG294150	Assessing the Privacy Risks of Data Sharing in Genomics Assessing the Privacy Risks of Data Sharing in Genomics The protection of identity of participants in medical research has traditionally been guaranteed by the maintenance of the confidentiality of health information through mechanisms such as only releasing data in an aggregated form or after identifying variables have been removed. This protection of privacy is regarded as a fundamental principle of research ethics, through which the support of research participants and the public is maintained. Whilst this traditional model was adopted for genetics and genomics research, and was generally considered broadly fit for purpose, we argue that this approach is increasingly untenable in genomics. Privacy risk assessments need to have regard to the whole data environment, not merely the quality of the dataset to be released in isolation. As sources of data proliferate, issues of privacy protection are increasingly problematic in relation to the release of genomic data. However, we conclude that, by paying careful attention to potential pitfalls, scientific funders and researchers can take an important part in attempts to safeguard the public and ensure the continuation of potentially important scientific research.
review-article	PHG294170	Public Health Genomics: The Interface with Public Health Intelligence and the Role of Public Health Observatories Public Health Genomics: The Interface with Public Health Intelligence and the Role of Public Health Observatories Background: Public health genomics is a new field that brings the findings of research in genetic and molecular technologies together with public health. The purpose of this paper is to examine the interface between this new emerging field and that of public health intelligence. We describe the possible areas of integration between genomics and public health, suggesting a future potential role for the Public Health Observatories. Methods: A small group comprising of a public health geneticist and representatives from Public Health Observatories met and discussed the ways in which the public health information and intelligence community might contribute to the developing agenda of public health genomics. Results: The results of the deliberations are presented in this paper, and a combination of short, medium and longer term possibilities are described. Also, necessary changes and additions to routinely collected data are proposed. Conclusions: The emerging field of public health genomics has implications for the collection, management and analysis of routine data. The benefits of this will accrue over time, but changes need to be made now in order to make the best use of these developments. A possible supporting action plan for the development of public health genomics within Public Health Observatories is proposed.
review-article	PHG294171	Capacity-Building in Human Genetics for Developing Countries: Initiatives and Perspectives in Sub-Saharan Africa Capacity-Building in Human Genetics for Developing Countries: Initiatives and Perspectives in Sub-Saharan Africa Background: Stakeholders who are committed to bridge the gap in genetics services need to be aware of current initiatives in sub-Saharan Africa. Methods: We reviewed selected experiences from African geneticists that led to specific recommendations. Results: The initiation of prenatal diagnosis of sickle cell anaemia founded the first medical genetic service in Cameroon. There remains a need for international collaborative effort to overcome the lack of human, technical and financial resources around the practice of medical genetics in Africa. The African Society of Human Genetics, Wellcome Trust and NIH have recently proposed a model on how to fully engage Africa in genomics. It includes a ‘Health and disease’ phase I: use of the case-control design to study genetic and epidemiological determinants of 7 important diseases in Africa, and a ‘Genetic variation’ phase II: comprehensive documentation of genetic variations in 100 carefully selected ethnic groups across Africa. The strategy would require the development of: (1) clinical phenotyping centres, (2) molecular phenotyping centres, (3) genotyping and sequencing capability, (4) data centres, and (5) a bio-repository in Africa. Conclusions: Governments and international health agencies need to recognise that genetics is important to the global medical community. The initiatives of African geneticists need advocacy and encouragement from the international community.
review-article	PHG294185	The Storage and Use of Biological Tissue Samples from Minors for Research: A Focus Group Study The Storage and Use of Biological Tissue Samples from Minors for Research: A Focus Group Study Genetic research on pediatric stored tissue samples raises specific ethical questions that differ from those raised when adults are the donors. To investigate opinions on this matter, we conducted 10 focus group discussions. Five focus groups were conducted with adult participants and 5 had teenage participants between 15 and 19 years old. The discussions were analyzed with NVIVO 8 (qualitative research software). We found the following recurrent categories: the requirement that research should not pose any burden on children and that it should benefit other children, the trust people had in the role of parents, the need for information and the growth towards autonomy. Both the adults and teenagers we interviewed thought that the inclusion of tissue samples from minors in research had ethical implications. A major concern was that nontherapeutic research would pose no extra burden on children, which would assume the use of nonintrusive methods of gathering samples and the use of samples that were gathered in a diagnostic context. Participants, however, also understood the necessity of such research. The overall impression was that parents would be the best persons to make decisions on behalf of a small child and that the same parents would engage their children in the decision-making when they grew older. People thought that there was a duty to recontact minors when they reached the age of competence but on a best-effort basis.
systematic-review	PHG294202	Synopsis of Preterm Birth Genetic Association Studies: The Preterm Birth Genetics Knowledge Base (PTBGene) Synopsis of Preterm Birth Genetic Association Studies: The Preterm Birth Genetics Knowledge Base (PTBGene) Aim: Our goal wasto produce a field synopsis of genetic associations with preterm birth and to set up a publicly available online database summarizing the data. Methods: We performed a systematic review and meta-analyses to identify genetic associations with preterm birth. We have set up a publicly available online database of genetic association data on preterm birth called PTBGene (http://ric.einstein.yu.edu/ptbgene/index.html) and report on a structured synopsis thereof as of December 1, 2008. Results: Data on 189 polymorphisms in 84 genes have been included and 36 meta-analyses have been performed. Five gene variants (4 in maternal DNA, one in newborn DNA) have shown nominally significant associations, but all have weak epidemiological credibility. Conclusion: After publishing this field synopsis, the PTBGene database will be regularly updated to keep track of the evolving evidence base of genetic factors in preterm birth with the goal of promoting knowledge sharing and multicenter collaboration among preterm birth research groups.
systematic-review	PHG351453	Environmental and Genomic Factors as well as Interventions Influencing Smoking Cessation: A Systematic Review of Reviews and a Proposed Working Model Environmental and Genomic Factors as well as Interventions Influencing Smoking Cessation: A Systematic Review of Reviews and a Proposed Working Model Background: Smoking behaviour is a major public health problem worldwide. Several sources have confirmed the implication of genomic factors in smoking behaviour. These factors interact both with environmental factors and interventions to develop a certain behaviour. Objectives: Describing the environmental and genomic factors as well as the interventions influencing smoking cessation (SC) and developing a working model incorporating the different factors influencing SC were our main objectives. Methods: Two systematic reviews were conducted using articles in English from the Cochrane library, PubMed and HuGENet from January 2000 to September 2012: (1) a systematic review of systematic reviews and meta-analyses and (2) a systematic review of original research for genomic factors. The proposed working model was developed by making use of previous models of SC and applying an iterative process of discussion and re-examination by the authors. Results: We confirmed the importance of the 4 main factors influencing SC: (1) environmental factors, (2) genomic factors, (3) gene-environment interactions, and (4) evidence-based interventions. The model demonstrates the complex network of factors influencing SC. Conclusion: The working model of SC proposed a global view of factors influencing SC, warranting future research in this area. Future testing of the model will consolidate the understanding of the different factors affecting SC and will help to improve interventions in this field.
meta-analysis	PHG438695	Association between a Genetic Variant in the hsa-miR-146a Gene and Cancer Risk: An Updated Meta-Analysis Association between a Genetic Variant in the hsa-miR-146a Gene and Cancer Risk: An Updated Meta-Analysis Background and Aims: A large number of studies have investigated the association between the potentially functional genetic variant rs2910164 located in the hsa-miR-146a gene and susceptibility to various types of cancer. Nevertheless, the results obtained in these studies are contradictory. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis of data from eligible reports comprising a total of 28,359 cases and 41,678 controls. Methods: The literature included in this meta-analysis was selected from the PubMed database. Quantitative data synthesis was performed by using the OpenMeta-analyst software. Results: The meta-analysis yielded no evidence of an association between rs2910164 and the overall cancer risk. Conversely, the C allele of this genetic variant was found to be associated with a decreased risk of developing bladder and cervical cancer in multiple genetic models. The same direction of association was found for the C allele and liver cancer, gastric cancer and oral squamous cell carcinoma risk. In contrast to these results, the same allelic variant of rs2910164 was found to confer an increased risk of developing lung cancer. The stratified meta-analysis based on ethnicity did not show significant differences in the association between rs2910164 and cancer risk in populations with different ethnic backgrounds. Conclusion: We conclude that rs2910164 may represent a valuable biomarker associated with the risk of developing specific types of cancer.
systematic-review	PHG441559	Decision-Making Process Related to Participation in Phase I Clinical Trials: A Nonsystematic Review of the Existing Evidence Decision-Making Process Related to Participation in Phase I Clinical Trials: A Nonsystematic Review of the Existing Evidence Due to the lack of other treatment options, patient candidates for participation in phase I clinical trials are considered the most vulnerable, and many ethical concerns have emerged regarding the informed consent process used in the experimental design of such trials. Starting with these considerations, this nonsystematic review is aimed at analyzing the decision-making processes underlying patients' decision about whether to participate (or not) in phase I trials in order to clarify the cognitive and emotional aspects most strongly implicated in this decision. Considering that there is no uniform decision calculus and that many different variables other than the patient-physician relationship (including demographic, clinical, and personal characteristics) may influence patients' preferences for and processing of information, we conclude that patients' informed decision-making can be facilitated by creating a rigorously developed, calibrated, and validated computer tool modeled on each single patient's knowledge, values, and emotional and cognitive decisional skills. Such a tool will also help oncologists to provide tailored medical information that is useful to improve the shared decision-making process, thereby possibly increasing patient participation in clinical trials.
review-article	PHG450991	"The Rise and Rise of Exome Sequencing The Rise and Rise of Exome Sequencing Beginning in 2009, the advent of exome sequencing has contributed significantly towards new discoveries of heritable germline mutations and de novo mutations for rare Mendelian disorders with hitherto unknown genetic aetiologies. Exome sequencing is an efficient tool to identify disease mutations without the need of a multi-generational pedigree. Sequencing a single proband or multiple affected individuals has been shown to be successful in identifying disease mutations, but parents would be required in the case of de novo mutations. In addition to heritable germline and de novo mutations, exome sequencing has also succeeded in unravelling somatic driver mutations for a wide range of cancers through individual studies or international collaborative effort such as the Cancer Genome International Consortium. By contrast, the application of exome sequencing in complex diseases is relatively limited; probably it would be too expensive were it applied to thousands of samples to achieve the statistical power for rare or low frequency variants (&lt;1%). On top of research discoveries, the application of exome sequencing as a diagnostic tool is also increasingly evident. In this article, we summarize and discuss the progress that has been made in these areas during almost a decade."
review-article	PHG479289	Exploring the Use of a Participative Design in the Early Development of a Predictive Test: The Importance of Physician Involvement Exploring the Use of a Participative Design in the Early Development of a Predictive Test: The Importance of Physician Involvement In this study, we contribute to the personalized medicine and health care management literature by developing and testing a new participative design approach. We propose that involving gastroenterologists in the development of a predictive test to assist them in their clinical decision-making process for the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases will increase the likelihood of their acceptance of the innovation. Based on data obtained from 6 focus groups across Canada from a total of 28 physicians, analyses reveal that current tools do not enable discriminating between treatment options to find the best fit for each patient. Physicians expect a new predictive tool to have the capability of showing clear reliability and significant benefits for the patient, while being accessible in a timely manner that facilitates clinical decisions. Physicians also insist on their key role in the implementation process, hence confirming the relevance and importance of participative designs in personalized medicine.
review-article	PHG479291	Cancer Genomic Resources and Present Needs in the Latin American Region Cancer Genomic Resources and Present Needs in the Latin American Region In Latin America (LA), cancer is the second leading cause of death, and little is known about the capacities and needs for the development of research in the field of cancer genomics. In order to evaluate the current capacity for and development of cancer genomics in LA, we collected the available information on genomics, including the number of next-generation sequencing (NGS) platforms, the number of cancer research institutions and research groups, publications in the last 10 years, educational programs, and related national cancer control policies. Currently, there are 221 NGS platforms and 118 research groups in LA developing cancer genomics projects. A total of 272 articles in the field of cancer genetics/genomics were published by authors affiliated to Latin American institutions. Educational programs in genomics are scarce, almost exclusive of graduate programs, and only few are concerning cancer. Only 14 countries have national cancer control plans, but all of them consider secondary prevention strategies for early diagnosis, opportune treatment, and decreasing mortality, where genomic analyses could be implemented. Despite recent advances in introducing knowledge about cancer genomics and its application to LA, the region lacks development of integrated genomic research projects, improved use of NGS platforms, implementation of associated educational programs, and health policies that could have an impact on cancer care.
research-article	PHO369630	"Accommodation of End-State Comfort Reveals Subphonemic Planning in Speech Accommodation of End-State Comfort Reveals Subphonemic Planning in Speech Applying the ‘end-state comfort' hypothesis of Rosenbaum et al. [J Exp Psych Learn Mem Cogn 1992;18:1058; Acta Psychol (Amst) 1996;94:59] to tongue motion provides evidence of long-distance subphonemic planning in speech. Speakers' tongue postures may anticipate upcoming speech up to three segments, two syllables, and a morpheme or word boundary later. We used M-mode ultrasound imaging to measure the direction of tongue tip/blade movements for known variants of flap/tap allophones of North American English /t/ and /d/. Results show that speakers produce different flap variants early in words or word sequences so as to facilitate the kinematic needs of flap/tap or other /r/ variants that appear later in the word or word sequence. Similar results were also observed across word boundaries, indicating that this is not a lexical effect."
research-article	PHO370160	Individual Differences in Learning Talker Categories: The Role of Working Memory Individual Differences in Learning Talker Categories: The Role of Working Memory The current study explores the question of how an auditory category is learned by having school-age listeners learn to categorize speech not in terms of linguistic categories, but instead in terms of talker categories (i.e., who is talking). Findings from visual-category learning indicate that working memory skills affect learning, but the literature is equivocal: sometimes better working memory is advantageous, and sometimes not. The current study examined the role of different components of working memory to test which component skills benefit, and which hinder, learning talker categories. Results revealed that the short-term storage component positively predicted learning, but that the Central Executive and Episodic Buffer negatively predicted learning. As with visual categories, better working memory is not always an advantage.
review-article	PJG452692	Acute Pancreatitis Etiology Investigation: A Workup Algorithm Proposal Acute Pancreatitis Etiology Investigation: A Workup Algorithm Proposal Background: Acute pancreatitis represents a significant number of hospital admissions. Most of the patients are admitted in an acute setting. Early identification of its etiology is an essential step toward the rational approach, both for its implications in the immediate therapy and the prevention of recurrence. Although often obvious, the etiological workup of acute pancreatitis can be challenging. Conclusion: There are several studies emphasizing the multiple etiologies underlying acute pancreatitis but lacking structured diagnostic workups to allow a rational and organized study. The main goal of this work is to develop an algorithm proposal, which aims to serve as a guide for the investigation of the etiology of acute pancreatitis based on a review of already published literature, adjusted to the reality of our hospital and the available resources.
review-article	PJG453271	Endoscopic Treatment for Gastric Antral Vascular Ectasia: Current Options Endoscopic Treatment for Gastric Antral Vascular Ectasia: Current Options Gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE) is a capillary-type vascular malformation located primarily in the gastric antrum. Patients can present with iron-deficiency anemia, overt gastrointestinal bleeding, or both. Diagnosis and characterization is made at endoscopic examination, and the preferred management of patients with GAVE is endoscopic therapy. Herein, we present a review of the evidence about the efficacy, complications, and outcomes of the most frequently used endoscopic therapies for GAVE.
systematic-review	PJG494674	"Preoperative Enteral Nutrition and Surgical Outcomes in Adults with Crohn’s Disease: A Systematic Review Preoperative Enteral Nutrition and Surgical Outcomes in Adults with Crohn’s Disease: A Systematic Review Background and Aim: Enteral nutrition (EN) is applicable to adult Crohn’s disease (CD) in treating malnutrition and in inducing remission – here as a less effective alternative than corticosteroids. The purpose of this review is to determine whether preoperative EN impacts postoperative complications of adult CD, either by means of nutritional or therapeutic effects. Summary: A systematic review of English written full-text research articles published between January 1990 and November 2017, including adult patients undergoing abdominal surgery for complicated CD after EN, was performed. Four studies out of 22 were selected, all of which institutional, retrospective, case-control cohorts, one classified as “good quality” and three as “poor quality,” as rated by the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. The application of inclusion and exclusion criteria resulted in a non-intentional absence of studies referring to supplemental EN among those reviewed. The reduced number of heterogeneous eligible studies impeded meta-analysis. In all studies, exclusive EN (EEN) was used and well tolerated, allowing to defer or even avoid surgery altogether, improving patients’ global state. The two studies with the greatest number of patients found preoperative EEN to be an independent factor against infectious and non-infectious complications in 219 patients and against anastomotic leaks or abscesses in 38 patients. Also, in univariate analysis, EEN was found to increase preop­erative immunosuppressant-free intervals and to protect against anastomotic dehiscences, intra-abdominal abscesses, surgical wound infections, ileus, stomas, and reoperations in the largest study; in another study it was related to fewer intra-abdominal septic complications. Key Messages: All reviewed studies are retrospective and, consequently, of limited relevance. Nonetheless, all of them call the attention of the scientific community to the potential benefits of preoperative EEN on postoperative outcomes in adult CD, calling for prospective multi-institutional studies and randomized controlled trials."
case-report	PJP477646	Implementing Case Management in Portuguese Mental Health Services: Conceptual Background Implementing Case Management in Portuguese Mental Health Services: Conceptual Background Case management implementation processes are one of the best examples on how an evidence-based practice can influence health services organisation. This practice helped shaping mental health teams, increasing their multidisciplinarity and interdisciplinary work in the last decades. Examples from several countries show how effectiveness research blends into health policy development to meet different needs in each health system, thus influencing case management inception and improvement of care. Portugal followed its own path in case management implementation, determined mostly by mental health services organisation and closely linked with the capacity to implement a national mental health policy in the last years.
meta-analysis	PLS443740	Brachial-Ankle Pulse Wave Velocity: Background, Method, and Clinical Evidence Brachial-Ankle Pulse Wave Velocity: Background, Method, and Clinical Evidence Background: The populations of many developed countries are becoming progressively older. In aged societies, assessment of total vascular risk is critically important, because old age is usually associated with multiple risks. In this regard, pulse wave velocity (PWV) could be a global cardiovascular marker, since it increases with advancing age, high blood pressure, hyperglycaemia, and other traditional risks, summating cardiovascular risks. Carotid-femoral PWV has been widely applied in Western countries and has been used as a gold-standard PWV measure. However, this measure has never been implemented by general practitioners in Japan, possibly because of methodological difficulties. The life expectancy of Japanese people is now the highest in the world, and the establishment of an adequate total vascular risk measure is an urgent need. Against this background, brachial-ankle PWV was developed at the beginning of this century. Summary: Measurement of this parameter is easy, and its reproducibility is good. Moreover, the generality of the methodology is guaranteed. Brachial-ankle PWV has been reported to consistently increase with most traditional cardiovascular risk factors except dyslipidaemia. A meta-analysis of cohort studies including various levels of risk has shown that a 1 m/s increase in brachial-ankle PWV is associated with a 12% increase in the risk of cardiovascular events. Moreover, simultaneous evaluation of the ankle-brachial index could allow further risk stratification of high-risk individuals, who are common in aged societies. This unique feature is indispensable for the management of aged populations, who usually are exposed to multiple risks and have polyvascular diseases. This evidence, however, is chiefly derived from East Asian countries. The collection of data from Caucasian populations, therefore, remains a task for the future. Key Message: Brachial-ankle PWV has the potential to become a measure of arterial stiffness worldwide.
meta-analysis	PLS443770	"Association between Tumor Necrosis Factor-α (-238G/A and -308G/A) Gene Polymorphisms and Risk of Ischemic Stroke: A Meta-Analysis Association between Tumor Necrosis Factor-α (-238G/A and -308G/A) Gene Polymorphisms and Risk of Ischemic Stroke: A Meta-Analysis Tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) is a proinflammatory pleiotropic cytokine which may contribute to the initiation and progression of ischemic stroke (IS). Thus far, numerous studies have been performed to examine the association between -238G/A (rs361525) and -308G/A (rs1800629) polymorphisms in the promoter regions of the TNF-α gene and susceptibility to IS, but results are still conflicting. The aim of this meta-analysis is to provide a relatively comprehensive account of the association between TNF-α -238G/A and -308G/A gene polymorphisms and susceptibility to IS. A literature search for eligible candidate gene studies published before April 20, 2015, was conducted in the PubMed, Medline, EMBASE and Google Scholar databases. The following combinations of main keywords were used: (‘Tumor Necrosis Factor-Alpha' or ‘TNF-α') and (‘ischemic stroke' or ‘cerebral infarction' or ‘IS') and (‘genetic polymorphism' or ‘single nucleotide polymorphisms' or ‘SNP'). Fixed- or random-effect models were used to estimate the pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI). Meta-analysis was carried out by using RevMan 5.3 software. For TNF-α -238G/A gene polymorphism, 7 case-control studies with a total of 1,846 IS patients and 1,905 controls showed a significant association with susceptibility to IS under a dominant model (AA + GA vs. GG; OR, 1.40; 95% CI, 1.11-1.76; p value 0.004). For TNF-α -308G/A gene polymorphism, 16 case-control studies with a total of 5,651 IS patients and 5,792 controls showed a significant protective association with susceptibility to IS under a dominant model (AA + GA vs. GG; OR, 0.78, 95% CI, 0.63-0.97; p value 0.03). Our meta-analysis shows that TNF-α -238G/A gene polymorphism is more likely to be associated with the risk of IS in Caucasian populations as compared to Asian populations. However, TNF-α -308G/A gene polymorphism is more likely to be protective against IS in Asian populations as compared to Caucasian populations. Further large, well-designed prospective epidemiological studies are needed to confirm these findings."
systematic-review	PLS445354	Carotid Stiffness: A Novel Cerebrovascular Disease Risk Factor Carotid Stiffness: A Novel Cerebrovascular Disease Risk Factor Carotid stiffening is considered an important element in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular diseases. These include stroke as well as vascular dementia and depression. However, results of individual studies evaluating the association between carotid stiffening and incident stroke have been inconsistent. Therefore, we have conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis, showing that carotid stiffening is associated with incident stroke independently of cardiovascular risk factors and aortic stiffness. In addition, carotid stiffening improved stroke risk prediction beyond the Framingham stroke risk factors and aortic stiffness. Other studies have shown that carotid stiffening is associated with a higher incidence of vascular dementia and depressive symptoms. This suggests that carotid stiffness is a potential separate target for prevention strategies of cerebrovascular disease.
meta-analysis	PLS447677	Relationship between Interleukin-6 (-174G/C and -572C/G) Promoter Gene Polymorphisms and Risk of Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Meta-Analysis Relationship between Interleukin-6 (-174G/C and -572C/G) Promoter Gene Polymorphisms and Risk of Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Meta-Analysis Background: Polymorphisms of -174G/C and -572C/G in the Interleukin-6 (IL-6) promoter gene can affect both transcription and secretion of IL-6 and may be involved in the inflammatory mechanisms in early and delayed phases after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The role of these polymorphisms remains unclear for the pathogenesis of ICH. Methods: PubMed, EMBASE, MEDLINE and Google Scholar searches were conducted from January 1, 1950 to February 29, 2016 and were supplemented with relevant articles identified in the references. The following search terms were used: (‘interleukin-6' or ‘IL-6') and (‘genetic polymorphism' or ‘single nucleotide polymorphisms' or ‘SNP') and (‘intracerebral hemorrhage' or ‘ICH') and (‘hemorrhagic stroke' or ‘HS'). Fixed or random effects models were used to estimate the pooled odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals. Begg's funnel plot was used to assess the potential for publication bias. Results: In our meta-analysis, three case-control studies involving 446 ICH cases and 2,322 controls were included. No significant association was observed for the IL-6 (-174G/C and -572C/G) gene polymorphisms with the risk of ICH under dominant, recessive and allelic models. Conclusion: Our meta-analysis suggests that IL-6 gene polymorphisms are not associated with the risk of ICH. However, caution must be taken while considering the results of our meta-analysis due to the presence of small sample size. Our results cannot be extrapolated to represent the effect of entire IL-6 genetic polymorphism on stroke patients worldwide. Therefore, further well-designed studies with large sample size are warranted to validate our findings and provide a profound conclusion.
review-article	PLS448454	Arterial Stiffness: Recommendations and Standardization Arterial Stiffness: Recommendations and Standardization The use of arterial stiffness measurements in longitudinal cohorts of normal populations, hypertensive patients, diabetic patients, healthy elderly, and patients on hemodialysis have confirmed the value of this important measure of arterial health, and established its complementary role to measures of blood pressure. Its contribution to understanding cardiovascular and mortality risk beyond blood pressure measurements has moved measures of arterial stiffness into the ranks of factors such as elevated cholesterol, diabetes, and left ventricular hypertrophy in considering cardiovascular risk. The recent international collaboration's publication of reference ranges for normal people and those with hypertension, along with the American Heart Association's recent scientific statement on standardizing arterial stiffness measurements are important aspects to consider in future studies employing these valuable methods, particularly as interventions that not only lower blood pressure but improve arterial function are tested in the clinical arena.
review-article	PLS448462	Clinical Application of the Cardio-Ankle Vascular Index in Asymptomatic Healthy Koreans Clinical Application of the Cardio-Ankle Vascular Index in Asymptomatic Healthy Koreans Background: Arterial stiffness has been established as a surrogate marker for the prognosis of cardiovascular disease. Arterial stiffness is also a predictor of future cardiovascular events, and is the earliest detectable manifestation of adverse structural and functional changes to blood vessel walls. Summary and Key Messages: The cardio-ankle vascular index (CAVI) is an index representing the stiffness of the entire arterial segments from the aorta to the ankle independent of the blood pressure at the time of the measurement. This paper provides an overview of the clinical application of arterial stiffness measurement by CAVI in asymptomatic Koreans. It includes the association between cardiometabolic risk factors and CAVI, and the relation between CAVI and asymptomatic coronary artery disease.
review-article	PLS452448	Large Artery Stiffness Assessment Using SphygmoCor Technology Large Artery Stiffness Assessment Using SphygmoCor Technology Large artery stiffness assessment has been an integral part of the SphygmoCor technology since 1998. Aortic stiffness is approximated with non-invasive measurement of carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity, with improvements made with time to make the assessment procedure quicker and more user independent. Also standard in the devices is the ability to reliably calculate the central aortic waveform shape from a peripheral pressure waveform from either the brachial or radial artery. This waveform contains much information beyond peak and trough (systolic and diastolic pressure). Relative waveform features such as the augmentation index, wave reflection magnitude, reflection time index, and subendocardial viability ratio are parameters that are influenced by the stiffness of systemic arteries. This article briefly describes these parameters related to large artery stiffness and provides reference to validation and repeatability studies relative to the clinical use of the SphygmoCor devices. It is beyond the scope to review here the 424 original research articles that have employed SphygmoCor devices in measuring arterial stiffness. Instead, the method of measurement across the devices is described, including tonometry, volumetric displacement through cuff placement around limbs, and ambulatory monitoring. Key population and subpopulation studies are cited where the average stiffness parameter progression with age and gender, as measured by SphygmoCor devices, is quantified in the healthy and general population. Finally, with reference to guidelines from working groups on arterial stiffness and hypertension, the clinical utility of large artery stiffness measurement is discussed in the context of the arterial stiffness parameters provided by the SphygmoCor systems.
review-article	PLS452742	"Effectiveness of Vitamin D Supplementation for Cardiovascular Health Outcomes Effectiveness of Vitamin D Supplementation for Cardiovascular Health Outcomes There is a plausible physiological theory, supported by many observational studies, that vitamin D supplementation should be effective for improving cardiovascular end points, such as blood pressure (BP), large artery stiffness, atherosclerosis, endothelial function and clinical events. However, results from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) have been inconsistent. In this review, we evaluated the evidence regarding the effectiveness of vitamin D supplementation for cardiovascular surrogate and hard clinical end points. RCTs were assessed in terms of sample size, duration of supplementation, baseline vitamin D level inclusion criteria (i.e., absence of vitamin D deficiency), dosage of vitamin D and population under investigation. Forty-five RCTs were identified. Eight RCTs with BP and 6 RCTs with large artery stiffness as the end points were found to comply with guidelines for the optimal design of clinical trials evaluating nutrient effects. Only 2 of the RCTs with an optimal design were effective in decreasing BP with vitamin D supplementation, although these were of moderate sample size (&lt;150) and very short duration (8 weeks for both), whilst no RCT was effective in reducing large artery stiffness. Similar results were observed for atherosclerotic and endothelial function markers as end points. Only 1 RCT reported cardiovascular events as an end point and found neither increased nor decreased incident cardiovascular events over 7 years of follow-up. In conclusion, results from published RCTs indicate that vitamin D supplementation is ineffective in improving cardiovascular health among various patient populations, including in the presence or absence of vitamin D deficiency."
review-article	PLS453073	"Estimated Pulse Wave Velocity Calculated from Age and Mean Arterial Blood Pressure Estimated Pulse Wave Velocity Calculated from Age and Mean Arterial Blood Pressure In a recently published paper, Greve et al [J Hypertens 2016;34:1279-1289] investigate whether the estimated carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (ePWV), calculated using an equation derived from the relationship between carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (cfPWV), age, and blood pressure, predicts cardiovascular disease (CVD) as good as the measured cfPWV. Because ePWV predicts CVD as good as cfPWV, some might wonder whether ePWV could be replaced by cfPWV, which is a time-consuming measurement requiring an expensive apparatus. This question is addressed in this mini-review."
review-article	PLS478530	Enhanced Aortic Pressure Wave Reflection in Patients with Aortic Coarctation after Aortic Arch Repair Enhanced Aortic Pressure Wave Reflection in Patients with Aortic Coarctation after Aortic Arch Repair Background: In patients with aortic coarctation after successful aortic arch repair, it is well known that early-onset cardiovascular diseases can develop. Summary: We studied the pressure waveform in patients after aortic arch repair focusing on a pressure wave reflection. In patients after aortic arch repair, the repaired portion generates a new reflected pressure wave. As a result, the newly generated pressure wave causes aortic pressure augmentation, loss of pressure amplification, and left ventricular hypertrophy with fibrosis. Balloon dilatation of the aortic arch may also generate a new pressure wave reflection. Key Messages: In patients with aortic coarctation after aortic arch repair, the reconstructed site generates a new pressure wave reflection. This could be one of the causes of their future cardiovascular diseases.
case-report	PNE321596	Collision Tumor of Meningioma and Malignant Astrocytoma Collision Tumor of Meningioma and Malignant Astrocytoma The authors report a 12-year-old boy who was presented with headache, nausea, vomiting and seizure. His magnetic resonance imaging showed 2 adjacent tumors in the region of the left ventricular trigone. The pathology of tumors reported collision tumors composed of meningioma and malignant astrocytoma.
case-report	PNE321597	"Are Arachnoid Cysts Localized Hydrocephali? Are Arachnoid Cysts Localized Hydrocephali? We report 2 cases of arachnoid cysts related to a head trauma. The first case involved a 1-year-old girl who developed an arachnoid cyst 7 months after suffering a head trauma due to a motor vehicle accident, and the second case involved a 1-year-old boy whose arachnoid cyst was first noted 2 months subsequent to his premature birth. We present the serial imaging for both cases. Choi and Kim [Pediatr Neurosurg 1998;29:260–266] postulated that head trauma in infancy may contribute to the pathogenesis of arachnoid cysts in some cases. In presenting our cases, we support this hypothesis, and further postulate that the arachnoid cysts may in fact be localized hydrocephali, triggered either by head trauma or by prematurity."
case-report	PNE321802	Complex Split Cord Malformation with Mediastinal Extension of a Teratoma and Simultaneous Ventral and Dorsal Bony Spur Splitting the Cord Complex Split Cord Malformation with Mediastinal Extension of a Teratoma and Simultaneous Ventral and Dorsal Bony Spur Splitting the Cord Introduction: Association of split cord malformation with teratoma is an extremely rare condition. It is very unusual to find split cord malformation with teratomas extending into the posterior mediastinum and still rarer to find bony spur arising dorsally and ventrally at the same level. Case Report: The authors describe the case of a 2-year-old child who presented with dorsal kyphosis and a dermal sinus. The neurological examination was unremarkable. MRI and noncontrast CT of the spine revealed Pang’s type I split cord malformation at the D9–12 level. Bony spur was seen arising both dorsally and ventrally at the D9–12 level. Intraoperatively, intradural teratoma was found coming extradurally both posteriorly between the 2 spurs and anteriorly into the posterior mediastinum above the bony spurs through a defect in the vertebral body of 2 cm diameter. Near total excision was performed. Discussion: To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the second case report of an intradural teratoma extending into the mediastinum, occurring with split cord malformations and other spinal anomalies. A similar case was reported from our institute in 2006. This is the first report of its kind of simultaneous dorsal and ventral bony spur at the same level.
case-report	PNE322017	Moyamoya Disease in Children with Congenital Dwarfing Conditions Moyamoya Disease in Children with Congenital Dwarfing Conditions Congenital dwarfisms can be associated with a variety of vascular anomalies. Here, we describe 2 patients with congenital dwarfisms who presented with moyamoya syndrome and underwent indirect intracranial revascularization. The pathogenesis of moyamoya syndrome in this population is not well understood, but it is a major cause of stroke and early death in these patients, making their timely diagnosis and management critical.
case-report	PNE322896	"Medulloblastoma with Extensive Nodularity Undergoing Post-Therapeutic Maturation to a Gangliocytoma: A Case Report and Literature Review Medulloblastoma with Extensive Nodularity Undergoing Post-Therapeutic Maturation to a Gangliocytoma: A Case Report and Literature Review We present a report of a 12-year-old boy diagnosed with medulloblastoma at 22 months of age. A gross total resection was performed followed by adjuvant systemic chemotherapy due to his young age; however, the tumor recurred locally in the posterior fossa 7 months later. The recurrent tumor was excised and he received craniospinal radiation with a boost given to the posterior fossa followed by high-dose chemotherapy. He remained disease free for approximately 10 years without major neurologic deficit and only mild cognitive impairment. A routine follow-up MRI of the brain revealed an enhancing mass. The patient underwent surgical debulking and pathological examination revealed no residual immature medulloblastoma cells but instead mature ganglion cells, consistent with a gangliocytoma. The apparent maturation of primitive medulloblastoma cells is a rare phenomenon, which may have ensued from the long-term effects of adjuvant therapies inducing advanced cellular maturation."
case-report	PNE322897	Sporadic Intramedullary Spinal Cord Hemangioblastoma in a Newborn Sporadic Intramedullary Spinal Cord Hemangioblastoma in a Newborn Background: Hemangioblastomas (HB) are rare lesions accounting for 2% of all spinal cord tumors. They are highly vascular, benign tumors that occur either sporadically or in the presence of von Hippel-Lindau disease. Spinal cord HB are usually diagnosed in adult patients and their incidence in early infancy is an extreme rarity. Methods: We present a case of a 1-month-old male with a back deformity and left leg hypomotility. MRI of the spine revealed an intramedullary tumor extending from level T6 to T12. Results: The tumor was excised completely, using standard microsurgical techniques via a posterior approach. The histological diagnosis was spinal cord HB. Conclusion: A review of the literature revealed that this neoplasm is composed of 3 major cell types: endothelial cells, pericytes and stromal cells. Complete microsurgical removal is the treatment of choice for spinal cord HB because the tumor is benign. To the best of our knowledge, sporadic spinal cord HB at this age has not been reported so far.
case-report	PNE322898	Laparoscopic-Induced Pneumocephalus in a Patient with a Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt Laparoscopic-Induced Pneumocephalus in a Patient with a Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt The authors report the case of laparoscopic-induced pneumocephalus in a ventriculoperitoneal shunt (VPS) patient undergoing a transperitoneal laparoscopic procedure. This case represents the first instance, to our knowledge, of forced retrograde air through a Holter valve placed 20 years ago. Abdominal laparoscopic surgery is a minimally invasive procedure utilized for a wide spectrum of abdominal and pelvic disorders. VPS systems for cerebrospinal fluid diversion are used to treat hydrocephalus. We present a case of laparoscopic-induced pneumocephalus in a VPS patient undergoing a transperitoneal laparoscopic procedure.
case-report	PNE323419	Aqueductal Stenosis Presenting as Isolated Tremor: Case Report and Review of the Literature Aqueductal Stenosis Presenting as Isolated Tremor: Case Report and Review of the Literature Essential tremor is rare in children, particularly in the absence of a significant family history. We report the case of a child with compensated hydrocephalus secondary to aqueductal stenosis whose sole presenting symptom was tremor. An otherwise healthy 6-year-old male developed a fine hand tremor, which over the course of 4 years both increased in intensity and spread to involve the lower limbs and head. After an MRI had confirmed hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis, the patient underwent an endoscopic third ventriculostomy. His tremor improved markedly, but did not completely resolve. Occult hydrocephalus should be considered in the differential diagnosis of new-onset tremor. Progression of the tremor should halt with treatment of the hydrocephalus, and clinical improvement may be seen.
case-report	PNE323422	Osteoblastoma of the Third Cervical Vertebra in a 16-Year-Old Boy: Case Report and Review of the Literature Osteoblastoma of the Third Cervical Vertebra in a 16-Year-Old Boy: Case Report and Review of the Literature Background/Subject: A rare case of osteoblastoma of the third cervical vertebra (C3) occurring in a 16-year-old adolescent is presented. He was admitted suffering from neck pain for more than 3 years. Method: Plain X-rays, technetium bone scanning, CT scan and MRI indicated an expansile, partially sclerotic lesion of the C3 involving the superior facet and pedicle on the right side. The lesion was excised through a posterior approach. Result: Even though the 18-month follow-up is still a very short interval in our case, the subject’s neck pain has resolved completely and there has been no sign of tumor recurrence in the recently taken imaging. There has been no clinical or radiologic sign of instability in the follow-up investigations. To the best of our knowledge, this is the third case of C3 osteoblastoma reported in the literature, highlighting the predilection of the reported cases to occur in 14- to 16-year-old boys. Conclusion: A full investigation is indicated in youngsters suffering from persisting neck pain and complete resection of the lesion can prevent recurrence and malignant transformation. Long-term follow-up is needed to declare a lifelong cure of the disease.
case-report	PNE323423	Acquired Chiari I Malformation in a Child with Corrected Diastematomyelia Disappeared after Thickened Filum Division Acquired Chiari I Malformation in a Child with Corrected Diastematomyelia Disappeared after Thickened Filum Division Introduction: In recent years there has been renewed interest in the relation between Chiari I malformation and spinal cord tethering. Case Report: A 3-year-old girl presented with right leg pain. At spinal MR scan there was diastematomyelia with a bony peg at L1 and syringomyelia at T10–11. She had a surgical repair of the diastematomyelia without filum division. Symptoms settled postoperatively. A few months later she started displaying weakness in the right leg and loss of bulkiness of the right calf. A new MR scan showed a new Chiari I malformation, which was not present in the preoperative MR scan. The syringomyelia cavity was smaller. There was low-ending conus medullaris at L3 and a thickened filum. The filum was divided 15 months after the first operation. At MR scan obtained 18 months after filum division, the previously noted acquired Chiari I malformation had disappeared. Discussion: There is no obvious explanation for the formation of acquired Chiari I malformation and its disappearance after filum division. Recently, there has been description of patients with Chiari I malformation and normal posterior fossa volume, who were treated with filum division, and their Chiari malformation regressed without craniovertebral decompression surgery. Nevertheless, it is difficult to explain how traction on the lowest aspect of the spinal cord could lead to herniation of the cerebellar tonsils through the foramen magnum.
systematic-review	PNE329624	Decompressive Hemicraniectomy for Pediatric Traumatic Brain Injury: Long-Term Outcome Based on Quality of Life Decompressive Hemicraniectomy for Pediatric Traumatic Brain Injury: Long-Term Outcome Based on Quality of Life Aims: The impact of decompressive hemicraniectomy (DCH) on the overall outcome of pediatric brain injury patients has not been fully determined. In this paper, the authors performed a systematic review of patient outcome based on quality of life following DCH in a pediatric population. Methods: We describe our experience with decompressive craniectomy in pediatric patients and perform a literature review and pooled outcomes analysis to supplement these findings. A total of 13 children underwent DCH for intractable intracranial pressure in our institution from 2000 to 2008. Follow-up was available in 11 patients with 1 death (9%) and 7 survivors (70%) obtaining a favorable outcome (Glasgow Outcome Scale, GOS, scores = 4–5). Results: A literature review to determine the usefulness of DCH identified 17 articles that, when combined with our series, resulted in 186 pediatric DCH cases. Pooled outcomes found 42 deaths and 112 patients who had favorable outcomes at 6 months. The average 6-month mortality was 21.1%, and the pooled mean quality of life among survivors 0.75 (0.68–0.82), midway between moderate disability and good outcome. Conclusions: Based on our findings, DCH results in a majority of pediatric patients having a good outcome based on the GOS score.
research-article	PNE368277	"Morphometric Analysis of Lumbar Pedicles in Patients with Spinal Dysraphism Morphometric Analysis of Lumbar Pedicles in Patients with Spinal Dysraphism Background: In patients with open neural tube defects, the incidence of scoliosis and requirement for spinal fusions are increased. Historically, there has been no standardized measurement of vertebral morphometry in these patients. However, anecdotally, patients with open neural tube defects have a more medially oriented lumbar pedicle trajectory than the average population. Methods: A single-institution retrospective review of patients with open neural tube defects was conducted. The demographic parameters and functional and anatomical levels of the defects were noted. CT and MRI scans of the lumbar spine were analyzed; the pedicles from L1 to S1 were measured for width (W), length (L) and midline angle (α). The measurements were compared bilaterally, at each level, and with data from previously published reports. Results: 16 scans of pediatric patients (mean = 3.0 ± 4.3; age range = 7 days to 14.4 years; 7 males, 9 females) with a diagnosis of either myelomeningocele or lipomyelomeningocele were assessed. Most defects occurred in the lumbar region, with L2 and L5 accounting for 37.5% each. All angles demonstrated a quadratic increase from L1 to S1 (means: L1 = 28.3 ± 5.24°; L2 = 29.1 ± 6.2°; L3 = 33.2 ± 6.0°; L4 = 36.8 ± 5.6°; L5 = 43.8 ± 5.9°; S1 = 52.0 ± 3.6°) and were more medially angulated than those reported previously; no significant difference existed between right and left measurements (W = 0.65 ≤ p ≤ 0.94; L = 0.91 ≤ p ≤ 1; α = 0.24 ≤ p ≤ 0.86). Conclusions: Patients with open neural tube defects had more medially angled pedicle trajectories in the lumbar spine when compared to previously reported values."
research-article	PNE370161	"Intracranial Aneurysms in the Youngest Patients: Characteristics and Treatment Challenges Intracranial Aneurysms in the Youngest Patients: Characteristics and Treatment Challenges Background: Characteristics and treatment challenges of aneurysms in young children differ from those in older pediatric patients. Methods: Records of children undergoing cerebral or spinal angiography by the senior neurointerventionalist (D.B.O.) from October 2006 to January 2014 were reviewed to identify patients with digital subtraction angiography-confirmed intracranial aneurysms. Demographics, presentation, subtype of aneurysm, treatment strategy, and outcome were evaluated. Results: Of 763 pediatric cases, 33 were of children harboring cerebral aneurysms. Overall, 48% were male, 24% presented with hemorrhage and 67% harbored fusiform/dissecting aneurysms. Patients aged 0-10 years were significantly more likely to harbor nonsaccular, dissecting/fusiform aneurysms (84 vs. 43%, p = 0.02). A total of 13/22 pediatric patients harboring dissecting/fusiform aneurysms were male (59%) compared to 3/11 with saccular aneurysms (27%, p = 0.14). Overall, 15 patients underwent endovascular treatment (45%) and 8 underwent microsurgical treatment (24%). There was no significant difference in treatment approach based on patient age or aneurysm morphology. Overall, 19/23 aneurysms were occluded after initial treatment (83%); there were 2 procedure-related complications with neurological sequelae (9%). Conclusion: We demonstrate that the youngest patients (10 years and under) have aneurysms even more distinct and less similar to adult aneurysms than those in the larger pediatric cohort."
research-article	PNE371658	"Cervical Spine MRI Findings in Patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis Type II Cervical Spine MRI Findings in Patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis Type II Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II; Hunter syndrome) is an X-linked, recessive, lysosomal storage disorder caused by deficiency of iduronate-2-sulfatase (EC 3.1.6.13). The purpose of this report is to describe cervical spine magnetic resonance (MRI) findings in MPS II patients and to correlate them with clinical phenotype. Seven cervical spine MRI examinations from Polish MPS II patients (mean age 11.4 years, median age 8 years, range 5-30) were evaluated. Six patients were classified as neurological (85.7%) and 1 as attenuated (14.3%). Five patients were treated with idursulfase (range 110-260 weeks, mean 195, median 200), while 2 patients never received the treatment. The following features were assessed: periodontoid thickening, spinal stenosis, dens hypoplasia, myelopathy, and vertebral and intervertebral disc abnormalities. Mean age at evaluation was 11 years (range 5-30, median 8). Cervical spine MRI was abnormal in all the patients and the most frequent abnormalities found were dens hypoplasia (100%), periodontoid thickening (100%), disc abnormalities (100%) and spinal stenosis (43%). There was no clear correlation between MRI findings and patients' phenotypes."
research-article	PNE371659	National Trends, Complications, and Hospital Charges in Pediatric Patients with Chiari Malformation Type I Treated with Posterior Fossa Decompression with and without Duraplasty National Trends, Complications, and Hospital Charges in Pediatric Patients with Chiari Malformation Type I Treated with Posterior Fossa Decompression with and without Duraplasty Background: The treatment of type 1 Chiari malformation (CM-1) with posterior fossa decompression without (PFD) or with duraplasty (PFDD) is controversial. The authors analyze both options in a national sample of pediatric patients. Methods: Utilizing the Kids' Inpatient Database, CM-1 patients undergoing PFD or PFDD from 2000 through 2009 were analyzed. Results: 1,593 patients with PFD and 1,056 with PFDD were evaluated. The average age was 10.3 years, slightly younger in PFD (9.8 vs. 10.9 years, p = 0.001). PFDD patients were more likely White (81.2 vs 75.6%, p = 0.04) and less likely admitted emergently (8.4 vs. 13.8%, p = 0.007). They also underwent more reoperations (2.1 vs. 0.7%, p = 0.01), had more procedure-related complications (2.3 vs. 0.8%, p = 0.003), a longer length of stay (4.4 vs. 3.8 days, p = 0.001) and higher charges (USD 35,321 vs. 31,483, p = 0.01). Conclusions: This large national study indicates that PFDD is performed more often in Caucasians, less so emergently, and associated with significantly more complications and immediate reoperations, while PFD is more frequent in those with syringomyelia and more economical, requiring fewer hospital resources. Overall, PFD is more favorable for CM-1, though it would be prudent to conduct a prospective trial, as this analysis is limited by data on preoperative presentations and long-term outcomes.
case-report	PNE441680	Transient Horizontal Gaze Palsy in a One-Month-Old Boy after a Fall Transient Horizontal Gaze Palsy in a One-Month-Old Boy after a Fall A 1-month-old boy was evaluated after a fall from a height of 3 feet and found to have right parietal skull fracture as well as right and left frontal traumatic hemorrhage. Ten days after the injury, he represented with a persistent left gaze preference. Further workup including MRI and EEG determined that this finding was most likely due to a small, focal, left-frontal eye field lesion. We review the horizontal gaze pathway and demonstrate that this is present at this very young age, and that a very focal and relatively minor injury can cause gaze disturbance.
case-report	PNE448737	Spontaneous Resolution of Spinal Epidural Hematoma Resulting from Domestic Child Abuse: Case Report Spontaneous Resolution of Spinal Epidural Hematoma Resulting from Domestic Child Abuse: Case Report Nonaccidental head injury, as seen in domestic child abuse cases, is often associated with spinal injury, and spinal subdural hematoma is the most frequent diagnosis. While spinal epidural hematomas are a rare occurrence, the incidence of spontaneous epidural hematomas occurring in nonaccidental head injury patients is even lower. Epidural hematomas often result in acute focal neurological deficits necessitating emergent neurosurgical intervention. In patients without focal neurological deficits, conservative management may allow for spontaneous resolution of the epidural hematoma. The authors present the case of a 2-year-old boy with a large spinal epidural hematoma resulting after an event of nonaccidental injury, specifically, domestic child abuse. This patient exhibited no focal neurological deficits and was managed conservatively without surgical clot evacuation. On a follow-up visit, repeat imaging studies demonstrated a stable resolution of spinal epidural hematoma, providing further support for the safety of conservative management in these patients.
review-article	PNE452169	New Concepts of Cerebrospinal Fluid Physiology and Development of Hydrocephalus New Concepts of Cerebrospinal Fluid Physiology and Development of Hydrocephalus The goal of this review is the presentation of the new (Bulat-Klarica-Orešković) hypothesis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) physiology and the ensuing new concept of hydrocephalus development in light of this hypothesis. The widely accepted classic hypothesis of CSF physiology and the traditional concept of hydrocephalus are contradicted by numerous experimental and clinical data, which consequently results in unsatisfying clinical treatment and patient recovery. Therefore, the newly presented concept of hydrocephalus development and possible future treatments are discussed. A new definition suggests that hydrocephalus is a pathological state in which CSF is excessively accumulated inside the cranial part of the CSF system, predominantly in one or more brain ventricles as a consequence of impaired hydrodynamics of intracranial fluids between CSF, brain, and blood compartments.
review-article	PNE452809	The Global Rise of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy with Choroid Plexus Cauterization in Pediatric Hydrocephalus The Global Rise of Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy with Choroid Plexus Cauterization in Pediatric Hydrocephalus In the quest to identify the optimal means of cerebrospinal fluid diversion free of shunt dependency, endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) with choroid plexus cauterization (CPC) has been proposed as a promising procedure in select children. Supplementing traditional ETV with obliteration of the choroid plexus has been shown to decrease the likelihood of ultimate shunt dependency by roughly 20%. Originally devised to treat hydrocephalus in infants in sub-Saharan Africa, ETV/CPC has gained eager attention and cautious support in the developed world. Herein, we offer a comprehensive review of ETV/CPC beginning with the history and theory behind the operation. Next, we delve into the data supporting its use across heterogeneous pediatric populations, and finally we discuss clinical outcomes and future directions.
systematic-review	PNE475820	Cervical Spine Aneurysmal Bone Cysts in the Pediatric Population: A Systematic Review of the Literature Cervical Spine Aneurysmal Bone Cysts in the Pediatric Population: A Systematic Review of the Literature Cervical spine aneurysmal bone cysts (ABCs) in pediatric patients have not been thoroughly studied. Using PubMed and Google Scholar, a systematic review of the literature was conducted for publications that included patients aged ≤15 years with a confirmed diagnosis of ABC in the cervical spine. Thirty-five studies with a total of 71 patients met the inclusion criteria. Nearly 80% of patients presented with neck or shoulder pain. The axis was the level most frequently involved (34.28%), followed by C5 (24.28%). Posterior elements were most likely to be affected (88.46%) while exclusive involvement of the body was uncommon. To our knowledge, this is the first systematic review of the literature regarding ABCs of the cervical spine in a pediatric population. Spinal ABCs are rarely found in the cervical region, and their treatment remains challenging due to their location, vascularization, and a high overall recurrence rate even with surgical resection.
review-article	PNE477175	Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers of Pediatric Hydrocephalus Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers of Pediatric Hydrocephalus Hydrocephalus (HC) is a common, debilitating neurological condition that requires urgent clinical decision-making. At present, neurosurgeons rely heavily on a patient's history, physical examination findings, neuroimaging, and clinical judgment to make the diagnosis of HC or treatment failure (e.g., shunt malfunction). Unfortunately, these tools, even in combination, do not eliminate subjectivity in clinical decisions. In order to improve the management of infants and children with HC, there is an urgent need for new biomarkers to complement currently available tools and enable clinicians to confidently establish the diagnosis of HC, assess therapeutic efficacy/treatment failure, and evaluate current and future developmental challenges, so that every child has access to the resources they need to optimize their outcome and quality of life.
systematic-review	PNE486202	Craniofacial Distraction in the Management of Anterior Plagiocephaly: A Novel Idea and a Systematic Review of the Literature Craniofacial Distraction in the Management of Anterior Plagiocephaly: A Novel Idea and a Systematic Review of the Literature Background: The objective of this work is to present a review of all reports involving the management of unicoronal synostosis with distraction osteogenesis (DO). Also, we have innovated a new method in the treatment of cases of anterior plagiocephaly at a young age using DO. Methods: We present a case in which anterior plagiocephaly was treated by DO of both metopic and hemicoronal sutures in a 4-month-old female patient. A comprehensive systematic literature review was completed using the search terms “distraction osteogenesis,” “unicoronal synostosis,” “anterior plagiocephaly,” and “craniosynostosis.” We excluded all experimental articles and reviewed clinical reports detailing the use of DO in the management of unicoronal synostosis. Results: The study sample of this review consisted of 16 reports published over a period of 17 years that were analyzed in detail. The total number of patients treated by DO was 120, and the mean age at operation was 12 months. In the case presented, successful correction of the unicoronal synostosis was achieved. Conclusion: Hemicoronal and metopic suture distraction in anterior plagiocephaly achieves considerable improvement in the midline shift of the anterior cranial base and naso-orbital complex.
case-report	PNE493014	Lhermitte-Duclos Disease in a Six-Year Old Child: A Rare Presentation Lhermitte-Duclos Disease in a Six-Year Old Child: A Rare Presentation Lhermitte-Duclos disease (LDD) is a rare, slow-growing, benign lesion of the cerebellum. It is often seen in the second and fourth decades. This disease is extremely rare in childhood. A 6-year-old girl presented with loss of balance. A mass lesion in the right cerebellum was detected by magnetic resonance imaging. The patient underwent surgical removal of the lesion, and the histological diagnosis was dysplastic gangliocytoma (LDD). The patient was discharged without complication, and her balance improved in the follow-up period. In this report, we present this rare occurrence in childhood and discuss the clinical course and management. LDD is very rare in early childhood and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of posterior fossa lesions.
systematic-review	PPS320976	Does the Therapeutic Relationship Predict Outcomes of Psychiatric Treatment in Patients with Psychosis? A Systematic Review Does the Therapeutic Relationship Predict Outcomes of Psychiatric Treatment in Patients with Psychosis? A Systematic Review Background: Numerous studies have shown that the quality of the therapeutic relationship (TR) between the patient and the clinician is an important predictor of the outcome of different forms of psychotherapy. It is less clear whether the TR also predicts outcomes of psychiatric treatment programmes in patients with psychosis (i.e. outside conventional psychotherapy). Methods: We conducted a systematic review and identified 9 primary studies that prospectively tested the association of the TR with 3 outcomes, i.e. hospitalisation, symptom levels and functioning. Because of the heterogeneity of the methods used, a meta-analysis was not feasible. A vote counting method was used to determine the number of statistically significant effects in the hypothesised direction (i.e. that a more positive TR predicts more favourable outcomes). Results: For each outcome, a χ2 analysis showed that the number of statistically significant findings in the hypothesised direction was greater than expected if the null hypothesis of no association were true. However, studies had methodological shortcomings, and the effect sizes of positive associations were rather small. Conclusion: It may be concluded that there is some, but not overwhelming, evidence that the TR predicts outcomes of complex psychiatric treatment programmes in patients with psychosis, and that methodologically more rigorous research is required. Such research should measure the TR at initial stages of treatment and use validated assessment instruments for both TR and outcomes.
systematic-review	PPS322633	"Onset and Recurrence of Depression as Predictors of Cardiovascular Prognosis in Depressed Acute Coronary Syndrome Patients: A Systematic Review Onset and Recurrence of Depression as Predictors of Cardiovascular Prognosis in Depressed Acute Coronary Syndrome Patients: A Systematic Review Background: Depression after acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is associated with worse cardiac outcomes. This systematic review evaluated whether depressed ACS patients are at differential risk depending on the recurrence and timing of onset of depressive episodes. Methods: MEDLINE, EMBASE and PsycINFO were searched from inception to 11 April 2009. Additionally, reference lists and recent tables of contents of 34 selected journals were manually searched. Eligible studies evaluated cardiovascular outcomes for subgroups of ACS patients with depression or depressive symptoms according to recurrence or onset. Results: Six studies were included that reported outcomes for subgroups of ACS patients with first-ever versus recurrent depression. Four of these reported also outcomes for post-ACS onset versus pre-ACS onset depression, and incident versus nonincident depression. Worse outcomes (odds ratio &gt;1.4) were reported for ACS patients with first-ever depression in 3 of 6 studies (1 study p &lt; 0.05), for patients with post-ACS onset depression in 3 of 4 studies (1 study p &lt; 0.05, but better outcomes in one study) and for patients with incident depression in 2 of 4 studies (no studies p &lt; 0.05). Conclusions: Although it is still suggested that ACS patients with first and new-onset depression are at particularly increased risk of worse prognosis, the inconsistent results from the studies included in this systematic review show that there is no consistent evidence to support such statements."
systematic-review	PPS327582	Does the Heterogeneity of Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Moderate the Response to Cognitive Behaviour Therapy? An Exploratory Study Does the Heterogeneity of Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Moderate the Response to Cognitive Behaviour Therapy? An Exploratory Study Background: Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a heterogeneous condition. A few studies have shown that some independent factors predict outcomes after cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT). Two recent systematic reviews suggest that heterogeneity may moderate treatment outcomes. However, no study has explored whether subgroups of CFS predict response to treatment. Methods: We used both latent class analysis (LCA) and latent class regression (LCR) to clarify the relationship between subgroups of CFS patients (n = 236), diagnosed using the Oxford diagnostic criteria, and the response to CBT. We measured symptoms, demographics, mood, and cognitive and behavioural responses to illness to define subgroups. Results: We found 5 latent classes by LCA, which did not differ in the direction of their response to CBT, with all classes showing improvement. In contrast, an exploratory LCR identified 4 latent classes, 1 of which predicted a poor response to CBT, whereas the other 3 predicted a good outcome, accounting for more than 70% of the patients. The negative outcome class was defined by weight fluctuations and physical shakiness, anxiety, pain and being focused on symptoms. Conclusions: CBT should be offered to all classes of patients with CFS, when defined by these measures. It may be possible to predict a minority group with a negative outcome, but this exploratory work needs replication.
systematic-review	PPS337349	Economics of Medically Unexplained Symptoms: A Systematic Review of the Literature Economics of Medically Unexplained Symptoms: A Systematic Review of the Literature Objective: To review cost-of-illness studies (COI) and economic evaluations (EE) conducted for medically unexplained symptoms and to analyze their methods and results. Methods: We searched the databases PubMed, PsycINFO and National Health Service Economic Evaluations Database of the University of York. Cost data were inflated to 2006 using country-specific gross domestic product inflators and converted to 2006 USD purchasing power parities. Results: We identified 5 COI and 8 EE, of which 6 were cost-minimization analyses and 2 were cost-effectiveness analyses. All studies used patient level data collected between 1980 and 2004 and were predominantly conducted in the USA (n = 10). COI found annual excess health care costs of somatizing patients between 432 and 5,353 USD in 2006 values. Indirect costs were estimated by only one EE and added up to about 18,000 USD per year. In EE, educational interventions for physicians as well as cognitive-behavioral therapy approaches for patients were evaluated. For both types of interventions, effectiveness was either shown within EE or by previous studies. Most EE found (often insignificant) cost reductions resulting from the interventions, but only two studies explicitly combined changes in costs with data on effectiveness to cost-effectiveness ratios (ratio of additional costs to additional effects). Conclusions: Medically unexplained symptoms cause relevant annual excess costs in health care that are comparable to mental health problems like depression or anxiety disorders and which may be reduced by interventions targeting physicians as well as patients. More extensive research on indirect costs and cost-effectiveness is needed.
systematic-review	PPS341309	Nutrient-Based Therapies for Bipolar Disorder: A Systematic Review Nutrient-Based Therapies for Bipolar Disorder: A Systematic Review Background: Pharmacotherapy is the first line of treatment for bipolar disorder, but many patients continue to experience persistent subthreshold symptoms. Alternative adjunct treatments, including nutritional therapies, may have the potential to alleviate residual symptoms and improve the outcomes of standard pharmacotherapy. The aim of this paper is to critically review the current clinical evidence and mechanisms of action of nutrient-based therapies alone or in combination with commonly used pharmacotherapies for mania and bipolar depression. Methods: We conducted a Medline search for clinical trials conducted with humans, published in English from 1960 to 2012 using nutritional supplements such as n–3, chromium, inositol, choline, magnesium, folate and tryptophan alone or in combination with pharmacotherapies for the treatment of bipolar disorder. Results: Preliminary data yields conflicting but mainly positive evidence for the use of n–3 fatty acids and chromium in the treatment of bipolar depression. Limited evidence found that inositol may be helpful for bipolar depression, but larger sample sizes are needed. Preliminary randomized, controlled trials suggest that choline, magnesium, folate and tryptophan may be beneficial for reducing symptoms of mania. Conclusions: Given the potential public health impact of identifying adjunct treatments that improve psychiatric as well as physical health outcomes, nutritional treatments appear promising for the management of bipolar disorder but require further study.
systematic-review	PPS342243	Staging of Mental Disorders: Systematic Review Staging of Mental Disorders: Systematic Review Background: The staging method, whereby a disorder is characterized according to its seriousness, extension, development and features, is attracting increasing attention in clinical psychology and psychiatry. The aim of this systematic review was to critically summarize the tools that are available for reproducing and standardizing the clinical intuitions that are involved in a staging formulation. Methods: A comprehensive research was conducted on the MEDLINE, PsycINFO, EMBASE and Cochrane databases from inception to May 2012. The following search terms were used: ‘stage/staging’ AND ‘psychiatric disorder/mental disorder/schizophrenia/mood disorder/anxiety disorder/substance use disorder/eating disorder’. Results: A total of 78 studies were identified for inclusion in the review. We discussed studies addressing or related to the issue of staging in a number of mental disorders (schizophrenia, unipolar depression, bipolar disorder, panic disorder, substance use disorders, anorexia and bulimia nervosa). The literature indicates that disorders have a longitudinal development or a treatment history that can be categorized according to stages. We proposed staging formulations for the above-mentioned psychiatric disorders. Conclusion: Staging models offer innovative assessment tools for clinical psychologists and psychiatrists. Characterizing each stage of an illness demarcates major prognostic and therapeutic differences among patients who otherwise seem to be deceptively similar since they share the same psychiatric diagnosis. A stage 0 to denote an at-risk condition does not appear to be warranted at the current state of research.
research-article	PPS342715	Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy Does Not Provide Any Additional Value in Agoraphobic Patients: A Randomized Controlled Trial Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy Does Not Provide Any Additional Value in Agoraphobic Patients: A Randomized Controlled Trial Background: A number of studies have demonstrated the efficacy of virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET) in specific phobias, but research in seriously impaired patients with agoraphobia is lacking. In this randomized controlled trial with patients with agoraphobia and panic disorder, VRET and exposure in vivo were compared in terms of outcome and processes involved. Methods: Patients with panic disorder with agoraphobia (n = 55) were randomly assigned to receive 4 sessions of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) followed by either 6 sessions of VRET or 6 sessions of exposure in vivo or to a waiting list control condition. Results: Analyses showed that both active treatment packages were significantly more effective than no treatment and that no differences between VRET and exposure in vivo were found in three out of four outcome measures. On the panic disorder severity scale, however, CBT plus exposure in vivo was more effective than CBT plus VRET. The results show clear synchrony of temporal processes involved in VRET and exposure in vivo on weekly avoidance measures and cognitive measures. Further, it was shown that initial changes in agoraphobic cognitions during the CBT phase predicted later changes in agoraphobic avoidance behavior. Conclusion: These data support the notion that therapeutic processes involved might be the same in VRET and exposure in vivo. However, given the slight superiority of exposure in vivo above VRET, the costs involved in the implementation of VRET and the lack of long-term follow-up, VRET cannot yet be recommended for patients with agoraphobia.
systematic-review	PPS343258	"Using Neurobiological Measures to Predict and Assess Treatment Outcome of Psychotherapy in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder: Systematic Review Using Neurobiological Measures to Predict and Assess Treatment Outcome of Psychotherapy in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder: Systematic Review Background: Trauma-focused cognitive-behavioral therapy (TF-CBT) and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) are effective treatments for posttraumatic stress disorder. However, little is known about their neurobiological effects. The usefulness of neurobiological measures to predict the treatment outcome of psychotherapy also has yet to be determined. Methods: Systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) focused on neurobiological treatment effects of TF-CBT or EMDR and trials with neurobiological measures as predictors of treatment response. Results: We included 23 publications reporting on 16 separate trials. TF-CBT was compared with a waitlist in most trials. TF-CBT was associated with a decrease in heart rate and blood pressure and changes in activity but not in volume of frontal brain structures and the amygdala. Neurobiological changes correlated with changes in symptom severity. EMDR was only tested against other active treatments in included trials. We did not find a difference in neurobiological treatment effects between EMDR and other treatments. Publications on neurobiological predictors of treatment response showed ambiguous results. Conclusion: TF-CBT was associated with a reduction of physiological reactivity. There is some preliminary evidence that TF-CBT influences brain regions involved in fear conditioning, extinction learning and possibly working memory and attention regulation; however, these effects could be nonspecific psychotherapeutic effects. Future trials should use paradigms aimed specifically at these brain regions and physiological reactivity. There are concerns regarding the risk of bias in some of the RCTs, indicating that methodologically more rigorous trials are required. Trials with neurobiological measures as predictors of treatment outcome render insufficient results to be useful in clinical practice."
systematic-review	PPS345316	"Excessive Mood Elevation and Behavioral Activation with Antidepressant Treatment of Juvenile Depressive and Anxiety Disorders: A Systematic Review Excessive Mood Elevation and Behavioral Activation with Antidepressant Treatment of Juvenile Depressive and Anxiety Disorders: A Systematic Review Background: The prevalence, characteristics and implications of excessive arousal-activation in children and adolescents treated with antidepressants for specific illnesses have not been systematically examined. Methods: We compared reports of antidepressant trials (n = 6,767 subjects) in juvenile depressive (n = 17) and anxiety disorders (n = 25) for consensus-based indications of psychopathological mood elevation or behavioral activation. Results: Rates of excessive arousal-activation during treatment with antidepressants were at least as high in juvenile anxiety (13.8%) as depressive (9.79%) disorders, and much lower with placebos (5.22 vs. 1.10%, respectively; both p &lt; 0.0001). The antidepressant/placebo risk ratio for such reactions in paired comparisons was 3.50 (12.9/3.69%), and the meta-analytically pooled rate ratio was 1.7 (95% confidence interval: 1.2-2.2; both p ≤ 0.001). Overall rates for ‘mania or hypomania', specifically, were 8.19% with and 0.17% without antidepressant treatment, with large drug/placebo risk ratios among depressive (10.4/0.45%) and anxiety (1.98/0.00%) disorder patients. Conclusions: Risks of excessive mood elevation during antidepressant treatment, including mania-hypomania, were much greater than with placebo, and similar in juvenile anxiety and depressive disorders. Excessive arousal-activation in children or adolescents treated with antidepressants for anxiety as well as depressive disorders calls for particular caution and monitoring for potential risk of future bipolar disorder."
research-article	PPS345968	Clinician-Identified Depression in Community Settings: Concordance with Structured-Interview Diagnoses Clinician-Identified Depression in Community Settings: Concordance with Structured-Interview Diagnoses Background: Relatively little is known about the prevalence and correlates of overdiagnosis of depression in community settings. This study examined the extent to which individuals with clinician-identified depression in the community meet the criteria for DSM-IV major depressive episodes (MDE) and characteristics of these individuals. Methods: In a sample of 5,639 participants with clinician-identified depression drawn from the 2009-2010 United States National Survey of Drug Use and Health, the proportion of participants who met the 12-month MDE criteria, ascertained by a structured interview, and variations in MDE diagnosis across different groups of participants were examined. Mental health profiles and service use of participants who met the MDE criteria were compared to those who did not meet these criteria. Results: Only 38.4% of participants with 12-month clinician-identified depression met the 12-month MDE criteria. Older adults were less likely than younger adults to meet the criteria - only 14.3% of those 65 years old or older met the criteria, whereas participants with more education and those with poorer overall health were more likely to meet the criteria. Participants who did not meet the 12-month MDE criteria reported less distress and impairment in role functioning and used fewer services. A majority of both groups, however, were prescribed and used psychiatric medications. Conclusions: Depression overdiagnosis and overtreatment is common in community settings in the USA. There is a need for improved targeting of diagnosis and treatments of depression and other mental disorders in these settings.
systematic-review	PPS346144	"Systematic Review of Blinding Assessment in Randomized Controlled Trials in Schizophrenia and Affective Disorders 2000-2010 Systematic Review of Blinding Assessment in Randomized Controlled Trials in Schizophrenia and Affective Disorders 2000-2010 Background: Blinding is an integral part of many randomized controlled trials (RCTs). However, both blinding and blinding assessment seem to be rarely documented in trial reports. Method: Systematic review of articles on RCTs in schizophrenia and affective disorders research during 2000-2010. Results: Among 2,467 publications, 61 (2.5%; 95% confidence interval: 1.9-3.1%) reported assessing participant, rater, or clinician blinding: 5/672 reports on schizophrenia (0.7%; 0.3-1.6%) and 33/1,079 (3.1%; 2.1-4.2%) on affective disorders, without significant trends across the decade. Rarely was blinding assessed at the beginning, in most studies assessment was at the end. Proportion of patients' and raters' correct guesses of study arm averaged 54.4 and 62.0% per study, with slightly more correct guesses in treatment arms than in placebo arms. Three fourths of responders correctly guessed that they received the active agent. Blinding assessment was more frequently reported in papers on psychotherapy and brain stimulation than on drug trials (5.1%, 1.7-11.9%, vs. 8.3%, 4.3-14.4%, vs. 2.1%, 1.5-2.8%). Lack of assessment of blinding was associated with: (a) positive findings, (b) full industrial sponsorship, and (c) diagnosis of schizophrenia. There was a moderate association of treatment success and blinding status of both trial participants (r = 0.51, p = 0.002) and raters (r = 0.55, p = 0.067). Many RCT reports did not meet CONSORT standards regarding documentation of persons blinded (60%) or of efforts to match interventions (50%). Conclusions: Recent treatment trials in major psychiatric disorders rarely reported on or evaluated blinding. We recommend routine documentation of blinding strategies in reports."
research-article	PPS346369	"Effects of a Multidisciplinary Stress Treatment Programme on Patient Return to Work Rate and Symptom Reduction: Results from a Randomised, Wait-List Controlled Trial Effects of a Multidisciplinary Stress Treatment Programme on Patient Return to Work Rate and Symptom Reduction: Results from a Randomised, Wait-List Controlled Trial Background: To evaluate the efficacy of a multidisciplinary stress treatment programme. Methods: General practitioners referred 198 employed patients on sick leave with symptoms of persistent work-related stress. Using a waitlisted randomised controlled trial design, the participants were randomly divided into the following three groups: the intervention group (IG, 69 participants); treatment-as-usual control group (TAUCG, 71 participants), which received 12 consultations with a psychologist, and the waitlisted control group (WLCG, 58 participants). The stress treatment intervention consisted of nine 1-hour sessions conducted over 3 months. The goals of the sessions were the following: (1) identifying relevant stressors; (2) changing the participant's coping strategies; (3) adjusting the participant's workload and tasks, and (4) improving workplace dialogue. Each participant also attended a mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) course for 2 h a week over 8 weeks. Results: The IG and TAUCG showed significantly greater symptom level (Symptom Check List 92) reductions compared to the WLCG. Regarding the return to work (RTW) rate, 67% of participants in the IG returned to full-time work after treatment, which was a significantly higher rate than in the TAUCG (36%) and WLCG (24%). Significantly more participants in the IG (97%) increased their working hours during treatment compared with the participants in the control groups, TAUCG (71%) and WLCG (64%). Conclusions: The stress treatment programme - a combination of work place-focused psychotherapy and MBSR - significantly reduced stress symptom levels and increased RTW rates compared with the WLCG and TAUCG."
systematic-review	PPS365150	"Cost-Utility Analyses of Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy of Depression: A Systematic Review Cost-Utility Analyses of Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy of Depression: A Systematic Review Background: Major depressive disorder (MDD) causes a massive disease burden worldwide. Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is an important treatment approach for depression. Cost-utility analysis (CUA) is a method to support decisions on efficient allocation of resources in health policy. The objective of our study was to systematically review CUA of CBT in the treatment of patients suffering from MDD. Methods: We conducted a systematic literature search in Medline, Embase, PsycINFO and National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED) to identify CUA of CBT for MDD. Cost data were inflated to the year 2011 and converted into USD using purchasing power parities (USD PPP) to ensure comparability of the data. Quality assessment of CUA was performed. Results: Twenty-two studies were included in this systematic review. No study employed a time horizon of more than 5 years. In most studies, individual and group CBT as well as CBT for maintenance showed acceptable incremental cost-utility ratios (&lt;50,000 USD PPP/quality-adjusted life year). The CUA results of CBT for children and adolescents and of computerized CBT were inconsistent. Discussion: We found consistent evidence that individualized CBT is cost-effective from the perspective of a third-party payer for short-term treatment and for relapse prevention of MDD in the adult population."
meta-analysis	PPS365764	"A Meta-Analysis of the Efficacy of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Clinically Relevant Mental and Physical Health Problems A Meta-Analysis of the Efficacy of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Clinically Relevant Mental and Physical Health Problems Background: The current study presents the results of a meta-analysis of 39 randomized controlled trials on the efficacy of acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), including 1,821 patients with mental disorders or somatic health problems. Methods: We searched PsycINFO, MEDLINE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Information provided by the ACBS (Association of Contextual Behavioral Science) community was also included. Statistical calculations were conducted using Comprehensive Meta-Analysis software. Study quality was rated using a methodology rating form. Results: ACT outperformed control conditions (Hedges' g = 0.57) at posttreatment and follow-up assessments in completer and intent-to-treat analyses for primary outcomes. ACT was superior to waitlist (Hedges' g = 0.82), to psychological placebo (Hedges' g = 0.51) and to treatment as usual (TAU) (we defined TAU as the standard treatment as usual; Hedges' g = 0.64). ACT was also superior on secondary outcomes (Hedges' g = 0.30), life satisfaction/quality measures (Hedges' g = 0.37) and process measures (Hedges' g = 0. 56) compared to control conditions. The comparison between ACT and established treatments (cognitive behavioral therapy) did not reveal any significant differences between these treatments (p = 0.140). Conclusions: Our findings indicate that ACT is more effective than treatment as usual or placebo and that ACT may be as effective in treating anxiety disorders, depression, addiction, and somatic health problems as established psychological interventions. More research that focuses on quality of life and processes of change is needed to understand the added value of ACT and its transdiagnostic nature."
meta-analysis	PPS367635	"Efficacy of Psychosocial Interventions on Psychological and Physical Health Outcomes in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Efficacy of Psychosocial Interventions on Psychological and Physical Health Outcomes in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Psychosocial intervention has been suggested as a potentially effective supplement to medical treatment in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but no reviews so far have quantified the existing research in terms of both psychological and physical health outcomes. We therefore conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled trials evaluating the effects of psychosocial interventions on psychological and physical health outcomes in COPD. Methods: Two independent raters screened 1,491 references for eligibility. Twenty independent studies investigating a total of 1,361 patients were included, assessed for their methodological quality, and subjected to meta-analytic evaluation. Results: After adjusting for potential publication bias, a statistically significant overall effect was found for psychological (Hedges' g = 0.38, 95% confidence interval, CI = 0.19-0.58; p &lt; 0.001) outcomes. When analyzing individual intervention types, cognitive behavioral therapy appeared to be effective (g = 0.39, CI = 0.15-0.62; p = 0.001) for improving psychological outcomes. In contrast, for physical outcomes, only mind-body interventions (e.g. mindfulness-based therapy, yoga, and relaxation) revealed a statistically significant effect (g = 0.40; CI = 0.01-0.79; p = 0.042). Conclusions: Taken together, the results lend support to psychosocial intervention as a tool in the management of COPD. However, due to indications of possible publication bias towards positive findings, the results should be interpreted with some caution, and more high quality research is needed."
systematic-review	PPS367913	Mood and Anxiety Disorders as Early Manifestations of Medical Illness: A Systematic Review Mood and Anxiety Disorders as Early Manifestations of Medical Illness: A Systematic Review Background: Affective disturbances involving alterations of mood, anxiety and irritability may be early symptoms of medical illnesses. The aim of this paper was to provide a systematic review of the literature with qualitative data synthesis. Methods: MEDLINE, PsycINFO, EMBASE, Cochrane, and ISI Web of Science were systematically searched from inception to February 2014. Search terms were ‘prodrome/early symptom', combined using the Boolean ‘AND' operator with ‘anxiety/depression/mania/hypomania/irritability/irritable mood/hostility', combined with the Boolean ‘AND' operator with ‘medical illness/medical disorder'. PRISMA guidelines were followed. Results: A total of 21 studies met the inclusion criteria and were analyzed. Depression was found to be the most common affective prodrome of medical disorders and was consistently reported in Cushing's syndrome, hypothyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, pancreatic and lung cancer, myocardial infarction, Wilson's disease, and AIDS. Mania, anxiety and irritability were less frequent. Conclusions: Physicians may not pursue medical workup of cases that appear to be psychiatric in nature. They should be alerted that disturbances in mood, anxiety and irritability may antedate the appearance of a medical disorder.
research-article	PPS369468	"A Telephone- and Text Message-Based Telemedicine Concept for Patients with Mental Health Disorders: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial A Telephone- and Text Message-Based Telemedicine Concept for Patients with Mental Health Disorders: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial Background: A telemedicine care concept based on telephone contacts and individualized text messages was developed for patients with mental disorders to continue treatment after therapy in a psychiatric day hospital. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the telemedicine interventions. Methods: The study had a 3-armed, randomized design with 2 intervention arms (intervention 1: telephone contacts; intervention 2: telephone contacts and short text messages; both took place over a period of 6 months and in addition to usual care), and a control group with usual care. Primary outcomes were 18-item Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI-18) scores for anxiety, depression and somatization. All participants were recruited from psychiatric day hospitals. The study was registered in the German Clinical Trials Register (DRKS00000662). Results: 113 participants were analyzed 6 months after starting the intervention. The average BSI-18 anxiety score after 6 months was -2.04 points lower in intervention group 2 than in the control group (p value: 0.042). The difference in BSI depression score between these two groups was marginally significant (p value: 0.1), with an average treatment effect of -1.73. In an exploratory sensitivity analysis restricted to the 75% of patients with the highest symptom scores at baseline, intervention group 1 yielded a significant effect for anxiety and depression compared to the control group (p = 0.036 and 0.046, respectively). Conclusions: Telemedicine provides a novel option in psychiatric ambulatory care with statistically significant effects on anxiety. A positive tendency was observed for depression, especially in cases with higher symptom load at baseline."
research-article	PPS369469	The Three-Month Effect of Mobile Internet-Based Cognitive Therapy on the Course of Depressive Symptoms in Remitted Recurrently Depressed Patients: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial The Three-Month Effect of Mobile Internet-Based Cognitive Therapy on the Course of Depressive Symptoms in Remitted Recurrently Depressed Patients: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial Background: Internet-based cognitive therapy with monitoring via text messages (mobile CT), in addition to treatment as usual (TAU), might offer a cost-effective way to treat recurrent depression. Method: Remitted patients with at least 2 previous episodes of depression were randomized to mobile CT in addition to TAU (n = 126) or TAU only (n = 113). A linear mixed model was used to examine the effect of the treatment condition on a 3-month course of depressive symptoms after remission. Both an intention-to-treat analysis (n = 239) and a completer analysis (n = 193) were used. Depressive symptoms were assessed using the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (IDS-SR30) at baseline and 1.5 and 3 months after randomization. Results: Residual depressive symptoms showed a small but statistically significant decrease in the intention-to-treat group over 3 months in the mobile CT group relative to the TAU group (difference: -1.60 points on the IDS-SR30 per month, 95% CI = -2.64 to -0.56, p = 0.003). The effect of the treatment condition on the depressive symptomatology at the 3-month follow-up was small to moderate (Cohen's d = 0.44). All analyses among completers (≥5 modules) showed more pronounced treatment effects. Adjustment for unequally distributed variables did not markedly affect the results. Conclusions: Residual depressive symptoms after remission showed a more favorable course over 3 months in the mobile CT group compared to the TAU group. These results are a first indication that mobile CT in addition to TAU is effective in treating recurrently depressed patients in remission. However, demonstration of its long-term effectiveness and replication remains necessary.
meta-analysis	PPS369978	"Second-Generation Antipsychotic Drugs in Anorexia Nervosa: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Second-Generation Antipsychotic Drugs in Anorexia Nervosa: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Background: Second-generation antipsychotic drugs (SGAs) are increasingly administered to achieve weight gain in anorexia nervosa. In this meta-analysis, we aimed to determine if any evidence for this treatment option can be derived from randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Methods: Based on the ‘World Federation of Societies of Biological Psychiatry (WFSBP) Guidelines for the Pharmacological Treatment of Eating Disorders', a systematic update literature search was applied to identify all RCTs investigating the efficacy, acceptability, and tolerability of SGAs in anorexia nervosa in comparison to placebo/no treatment. The primary outcome was weight gain measured by mean change in body mass index (BMI). Secondary outcomes were mean changes in Yale-Brown-Cornell Eating Disorders Scale (YBC-EDS) total score and Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI) total score and premature discontinuation of treatment. Employing a random-effects model standardized mean differences based on Hedges's g and Mantel-Haenszel risk ratios were calculated. Results: Seven RCTs (n = 201) investigating olanzapine (N = 4), quetiapine (N = 2), and risperidone (N = 1) were included. We found no statistically significant between-group differences for mean BMI change when pooling the SGAs (N = 7, n = 161; Hedges's g = 0.13, 95% CI: -0.17 to 0.43; p = 0.4) and when examining the individual drugs. Furthermore, the SGAs failed to differentiate statistically significantly from placebo/no treatment for all secondary outcomes. Conclusions: Based on the current evidence, pharmacological treatment of anorexia nervosa with SGAs cannot be generally recommended although some individuals or subgroups of patients might benefit from an antipsychotic medication. Further research is required to identify which patients will likely benefit from such a treatment option."
research-article	PPS370162	Treating Treatment-Resistant Patients with Panic Disorder and Agoraphobia Using Psychotherapy: A Randomized Controlled Switching Trial Treating Treatment-Resistant Patients with Panic Disorder and Agoraphobia Using Psychotherapy: A Randomized Controlled Switching Trial Background: Nonresponsiveness to therapy is generally acknowledged, but only a few studies have tested switching to psychotherapy. This study is one of the first to examine the malleability of treatment-resistant patients using acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT). Methods: This was a randomized controlled trial that included 43 patients diagnosed with primary panic disorder and/or agoraphobia (PD/A) with prior unsuccessful state-of-the-art treatment (mean number of previous sessions = 42.2). Patients were treated with an ACT manual administered by novice therapists and followed up for 6 months. They were randomized to immediate treatment (n = 33) or a 4-week waiting list (n = 10) with delayed treatment (n = 8). Treatment consisted of eight sessions, implemented twice weekly over 4 weeks. Primary outcomes were measured with the Panic and Agoraphobia Scale (PAS), the Clinical Global Impression (CGI), and the Mobility Inventory (MI). Results: At post-treatment, patients who received ACT reported significantly more improvements on the PAS and CGI (d = 0.72 and 0.89, respectively) than those who were on the waiting list, while improvement on the MI (d = 0.50) was nearly significant. Secondary outcomes were consistent with ACT theory. Follow-up assessments indicated a stable and continued improvement after treatment. The dropout rate was low (9%). Conclusions: Despite a clinically challenging sample and brief treatment administered by novice therapists, patients who received ACT reported significantly greater changes in functioning and symptomatology than those on the waiting list, with medium-to-large effect sizes that were maintained for at least 6 months. These proof-of-principle data suggest that ACT is a viable treatment option for treatment-resistant PD/A patients. Further work on switching to psychotherapy for nonresponders is clearly needed.
systematic-review	PPS370338	Withdrawal Symptoms after Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor Discontinuation: A Systematic Review Withdrawal Symptoms after Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor Discontinuation: A Systematic Review Background: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) are widely used in medical practice. They have been associated with a broad range of symptoms, whose clinical meaning has not been fully appreciated. Methods: The PRISMA guidelines were followed to conduct a systematic review of the literature. Titles, abstracts, and topics were searched using the following terms: ‘withdrawal symptoms' OR ‘withdrawal syndrome' OR ‘discontinuation syndrome' OR ‘discontinuation symptoms', AND ‘SSRI' OR ‘serotonin' OR ‘antidepressant' OR ‘paroxetine' OR ‘fluoxetine' OR ‘sertraline' OR ‘fluvoxamine' OR ‘citalopram' OR ‘escitalopram'. The electronic research literature databases included CINAHL, the Cochrane Library, PubMed and Web-of-Science from inception of each database to July 2014. Results: There were 15 randomized controlled studies, 4 open trials, 4 retrospective investigations, and 38 case reports. The prevalence of the syndrome was variable, and its estimation was hindered by a lack of case identification in many studies. Symptoms typically occur within a few days from drug discontinuation and last a few weeks, also with gradual tapering. However, many variations are possible, including late onset and/or longer persistence of disturbances. Symptoms may be easily misidentified as signs of impending relapse. Conclusions: Clinicians need to add SSRI to the list of drugs potentially inducing withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation, together with benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and other psychotropic drugs. The term ‘discontinuation syndrome' that is currently used minimizes the potential vulnerabilities induced by SSRI and should be replaced by ‘withdrawal syndrome'.
systematic-review	PPS376585	"The WHO-5 Well-Being Index: A Systematic Review of the Literature The WHO-5 Well-Being Index: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background: The 5-item World Health Organization Well-Being Index (WHO-5) is among the most widely used questionnaires assessing subjective psychological well-being. Since its first publication in 1998, the WHO-5 has been translated into more than 30 languages and has been used in research studies all over the world. We now provide a systematic review of the literature on the WHO-5. Methods: We conducted a systematic search for literature on the WHO-5 in PubMed and PsycINFO in accordance with the PRISMA guidelines. In our review of the identified articles, we focused particularly on the following aspects: (1) the clinimetric validity of the WHO-5; (2) the responsiveness/sensitivity of the WHO-5 in controlled clinical trials; (3) the potential of the WHO-5 as a screening tool for depression, and (4) the applicability of the WHO-5 across study fields. Results: A total of 213 articles met the predefined criteria for inclusion in the review. The review demonstrated that the WHO-5 has high clinimetric validity, can be used as an outcome measure balancing the wanted and unwanted effects of treatments, is a sensitive and specific screening tool for depression and its applicability across study fields is very high. Conclusions: The WHO-5 is a short questionnaire consisting of 5 simple and non-invasive questions, which tap into the subjective well-being of the respondents. The scale has adequate validity both as a screening tool for depression and as an outcome measure in clinical trials and has been applied successfully across a wide range of study fields."
meta-analysis	PPS377705	"Are Group Psychotherapeutic Treatments Effective for Patients with Schizophrenia? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Are Group Psychotherapeutic Treatments Effective for Patients with Schizophrenia? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Different psychotherapeutic treatments for schizophrenia are delivered in groups. However, little is known about the effectiveness of these group therapies for people with schizophrenia across different treatments with varying therapeutic orientations. This review aimed to (1) estimate the effect of different group psychotherapeutic treatments for schizophrenia and (2) explore whether any overall ‘group effect' is moderated by treatment intensity, diagnostic homogeneity and therapeutic orientation. Methods: A systematic search of randomised controlled trials exploring the effectiveness of group psychotherapeutic treatments for people with schizophrenia was conducted. Random-effect meta-analyses on endpoint symptom scores compared group psychotherapeutic treatments with treatment as usual and active sham groups. Findings on social functioning were described narratively, and meta-regression analyses on group characteristics were carried out. Results: Thirty-four eligible trials were included. A weak-to-moderate significant between-group difference in favour of group psychotherapeutic treatments was found for negative symptom scores (standard mean difference = -0.37, 95% confidence interval -0.60, -0.14; p &lt; 0.01, I2 = 59.8%) only when compared to treatment as usual and not to active sham groups. Improved social functioning was reported as a treatment outcome in the majority of studies compared to treatment as usual. The ‘group effect' on negative symptoms was positively related to ‘treatment intensity' (β = 0.32, standard error = 0.121; p &lt; 0.05). Conclusion: Group psychotherapeutic treatments can improve negative symptoms and social functioning deficits in the treatment of schizophrenia. The effect occurs across different treatments and appears to be non-specific. Future research should identify the underlying mechanisms for the positive effect of participating in groups and explore how they can be maximised to increase the therapeutic benefit."
meta-analysis	PPS380914	"Does It Matter Who Provides Psychological Interventions for Medically Unexplained Symptoms? A Meta-Analysis Does It Matter Who Provides Psychological Interventions for Medically Unexplained Symptoms? A Meta-Analysis Background: Patients with medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) are difficult to treat and cause high health-care costs. Psychological interventions might be a beneficial option for treating patients with MUS, but evidence is inconsistent. This meta-analysis compares the effectiveness of psychological interventions for MUS - delivered either by psychotherapists (PTs) or by general practitioners (GPs) - with that of usual care. Method: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis on randomised controlled trials of psychological interventions for MUS. Physical symptoms were the primary outcome, and physical functioning and psychological symptoms were the secondary outcomes. We pooled between-group effect sizes (ESs) after the treatment and at the follow-up in random-effects meta-regressions and stratified meta-analyses. We repeated these analyses with the intervention provider, intervention dose, MUS severity and methodological quality as predictors of relative intervention effects. Results: A total of 3,225 patients in 20 studies were analysed. After the treatment, small and significant ESs were found for all 3 outcome domains (ES range: 0.13-0.19, all p &lt; 0.05). Psychological interventions were more beneficial for physical symptoms when delivered by PTs than by GPs (p = 0.02). There was no difference between PTs and GPs in terms of physical functioning and psychological symptoms. Conclusion: Psychological interventions are effective for patients with MUS, but the effects are small and most likely of short duration. Interventions that are delivered by PTs appear to have larger effects on unexplained physical symptoms than those delivered by GPs. Whether this superiority is due to a larger number of sessions of PT interventions remains unclear from our findings."
meta-analysis	PPS441231	"Irrational Beliefs and Psychological Distress: A Meta-Analysis Irrational Beliefs and Psychological Distress: A Meta-Analysis Background: Since the cognitive revolution of the early 1950s, cognitions have been discussed as central components in the understanding and treatment of mental illnesses. Even though there is an extensive literature on the association between therapy-related cognitions such as irrational beliefs and psychological distress over the past 60 years, there is little meta-analytical knowledge about the nature of this association. Methods: The relationship between irrational beliefs and distress was examined based on a systematic review that included 100 independent samples, gathered in 83 primary studies, using a random-effect model. The overall effects as well as potential moderators were examined: (a) distress measure, (b) irrational belief measure, (c) irrational belief type, (d) method of assessment of distress, (e) nature of irrational beliefs, (f) time lag between irrational beliefs and distress assessment, (g) nature of stressful events, (h) sample characteristics (i.e. age, gender, income, and educational, marital, occupational and clinical status), (i) developer/validator status of the author(s), and (k) publication year and country. Results: Overall, irrational beliefs were positively associated with various types of distress, such as general distress, anxiety, depression, anger, and guilt (omnibus: r = 0.38). The following variables were significant moderators of the relationship between the intensity of irrational beliefs and the level of distress: irrational belief measure and type, stressful event, age, educational and clinical status, and developer/validator status of the author. Conclusions: Irrational beliefs and distress are moderately connected to each other; this relationship remains significant even after controlling for several potential covariates."
meta-analysis	PPS442293	"Suicides and Suicide Attempts during Long-Term Treatment with Antidepressants: A Meta-Analysis of 29 Placebo-Controlled Studies Including 6,934 Patients with Major Depressive Disorder Suicides and Suicide Attempts during Long-Term Treatment with Antidepressants: A Meta-Analysis of 29 Placebo-Controlled Studies Including 6,934 Patients with Major Depressive Disorder Background: It is unclear whether antidepressants can prevent suicides or suicide attempts, particularly during long-term use. Methods: We carried out a comprehensive review of long-term studies of antidepressants (relapse prevention). Sources were obtained from 5 review articles and by searches of MEDLINE, PubMed Central and a hand search of bibliographies. We meta-analyzed placebo-controlled antidepressant RCTs of at least 3 months' duration and calculated suicide and suicide attempt incidence rates, incidence rate ratios and Peto odds ratios (ORs). Results: Out of 807 studies screened 29 were included, covering 6,934 patients (5,529 patient-years). In total, 1.45 suicides and 2.76 suicide attempts per 1,000 patient-years were reported. Seven out of 8 suicides and 13 out of 14 suicide attempts occurred in antidepressant arms, resulting in incidence rate ratios of 5.03 (0.78-114.1; p = 0.102) for suicides and of 9.02 (1.58-193.6; p = 0.007) for suicide attempts. Peto ORs were 2.6 (0.6-11.2; nonsignificant) and 3.4 (1.1-11.0; p = 0.04), respectively. Dropouts due to unknown reasons were similar in the antidepressant and placebo arms (9.6 vs. 9.9%). The majority of suicides and suicide attempts originated from 1 study, accounting for a fifth of all patient-years in this meta-analysis. Leaving out this study resulted in a nonsignificant incidence rate ratio for suicide attempts of 3.83 (0.53-91.01). Conclusions: Therapists should be aware of the lack of proof from RCTs that antidepressants prevent suicides and suicide attempts. We cannot conclude with certainty whether antidepressants increase the risk for suicide or suicide attempts. Researchers must report all suicides and suicide attempts in RCTs."
research-article	PPS442824	"Effectiveness of Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Children and Adolescents: A Randomized Controlled Trial in Eight German Mental Health Clinics Effectiveness of Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Children and Adolescents: A Randomized Controlled Trial in Eight German Mental Health Clinics Background: Trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy (Tf-CBT) is efficacious for children and adolescents with posttraumatic stress symptoms (PTSS). Its effectiveness in clinical practice has still to be investigated. Aims: To determine whether Tf-CBT is superior to waiting list (WL), and to investigate the predictors of treatment response. Method: We conducted a single-blind parallel-group randomized controlled trial in eight German outpatient clinics with the main inclusion criteria of age 7-17 years, symptom score ≥35 on the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale for Children and Adolescents (CAPS-CA), and caregiver participation. Patients were randomly assigned to 12 sessions of Tf-CBT (n = 76) or a WL (n = 83). The primary outcome was the CAPS-CA symptom score assessed at 4 months by blinded evaluators. The secondary measures were diagnostic status, the Children's Global Assessment Scale (CGAS), self-reported and caregiver-reported PTSS (UCLA-PTSD Reaction Index), the Child Posttraumatic Cognitions Inventory (CPTCI), the Children's Depression Inventory (CDI), the Screen for Child Anxiety- Related Emotional Disorders (SCARED), the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL/4-18), and the Quality of Life Inventory for Children. Results: Intention-to-treat analyses showed that Tf-CBT was significantly superior to WL on the CAPS-CA (Tf-CBT: baseline = 58.51 ± 17.41; 4 months = 32.16 ± 26.02; WL: baseline = 57.39 ± 16.05; 4 months = 43.29 ± 25.2; F1, 157 = 12.3; p = 0.001; d = 0.50), in terms of secondary measures of the CGAS, UCLA-PTSD-RI, CPTCI, CDI, SCARED, and CBCL/4-18, but not in terms of quality of life. Age and comorbidity significantly predicted treatment response. Conclusions: Tf-CBT is effective for children and adolescents with heterogeneous trauma types in German service settings. Younger patients with fewer comorbid disorders show most improvement."
research-article	PPS444023	A Genome-Wide Test of the Differential Susceptibility Hypothesis Reveals a Genetic Predictor of Differential Response to Psychological Treatments for Child Anxiety Disorders A Genome-Wide Test of the Differential Susceptibility Hypothesis Reveals a Genetic Predictor of Differential Response to Psychological Treatments for Child Anxiety Disorders Background: The differential susceptibly hypothesis suggests that certain genetic variants moderate the effects of both negative and positive environments on mental health and may therefore be important predictors of response to psychological treatments. Nevertheless, the identification of such variants has so far been limited to preselected candidate genes. In this study we extended the differential susceptibility hypothesis from a candidate gene to a genome-wide approach to test whether a polygenic score of environmental sensitivity predicted response to cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) in children with anxiety disorders. Methods: We identified variants associated with environmental sensitivity using a novel method in which within-pair variability in emotional problems in 1,026 monozygotic twin pairs was examined as a function of the pairs' genotype. We created a polygenic score of environmental sensitivity based on the whole-genome findings and tested the score as a moderator of parenting on emotional problems in 1,406 children and response to individual, group and brief parent-led CBT in 973 children with anxiety disorders. Results: The polygenic score significantly moderated the effects of parenting on emotional problems and the effects of treatment. Individuals with a high score responded significantly better to individual CBT than group CBT or brief parent-led CBT (remission rates: 70.9, 55.5 and 41.6%, respectively). Conclusions: Pending successful replication, our results should be considered exploratory. Nevertheless, if replicated, they suggest that individuals with the greatest environmental sensitivity may be more likely to develop emotional problems in adverse environments but also benefit more from the most intensive types of treatment.
review-article	PPS448856	Current Psychosomatic Practice Current Psychosomatic Practice Psychosomatic research has advanced over the past decades in dealing with complex biopsychosocial phenomena and may provide new effective modalities of patient care. Among psychosocial variables affecting individual vulnerability, course, and outcome of any medical disease, the role of chronic stress (allostatic load/overload) has emerged as a crucial factor. Assessment strategies include the Diagnostic Criteria for Psychosomatic Research. They are presented here in an updated version based on insights derived from studies carried out so far and encompass allostatic overload, type A behavior, alexithymia, the spectrum of maladaptive illness behavior, demoralization, irritable mood, and somatic symptoms secondary to a psychiatric disorder. Macroanalysis is a helpful tool for identifying the relationships between biological and psychosocial variables and the individual targets for medical intervention. The personalized and holistic approach to the patient includes integration of medical and psychological therapies in all phases of illness. In this respect, the development of a new psychotherapeutic modality, Well-Being Therapy, seems to be promising. The growth of subspecialties, such as psychooncology and psychodermatology, drives towards the multidisciplinary organization of health care to overcome artificial boundaries. There have been major transformations in health care needs in the past decades. From psychosomatic medicine, a land of innovative hypotheses and trends, many indications for changes in the current practice of medicine are now at hand. The aim of this critical review is to outline current and potential clinical applications of psychosomatic methods.
review-article	PPS448957	"Gut Microbiota, Bacterial Translocation, and Interactions with Diet: Pathophysiological Links between Major Depressive Disorder and Non-Communicable Medical Comorbidities Gut Microbiota, Bacterial Translocation, and Interactions with Diet: Pathophysiological Links between Major Depressive Disorder and Non-Communicable Medical Comorbidities Background: Persistent low-grade immune-inflammatory processes, oxidative and nitrosative stress (O&amp;amp;NS), and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation are integral to the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). The microbiome, intestinal compositional changes, and resultant bacterial translocation add a new element to the bidirectional interactions of the gut-brain axis; new evidence implicates these pathways in the patho-aetiology of MDD. In addition, abnormalities in the gut-brain axis are associated with several chronic non-communicable disorders, which frequently co-occur in individuals with MDD, including but not limited to irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), obesity, and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Methods: We searched the PubMed/MEDLINE database up until May 1, 2016 for studies which investigated intestinal dysbiosis and bacterial translocation (the ‘leaky gut') in the pathophysiology of MDD and co-occurring somatic comorbidities with an emphasis on IBS, CFS, obesity, and T2DM. Results: The composition of the gut microbiota is influenced by several genetic and environmental factors (e.g. diet). Several lines of evidence indicate that gut-microbiota-diet interactions play a significant pathophysiological role in MDD and related medical comorbidities. Gut dysbiosis and the leaky gut may influence several pathways implicated in the biology of MDD, including but not limited to immune activation, O&amp;amp;NS, and neuroplasticity cascades. However, methodological inconsistencies and limitations limit comparisons across studies. Conclusions: Intestinal dysbiosis and the leaky gut may constitute a key pathophysiological link between MDD and its medical comorbidities. This emerging literature opens relevant preventative and therapeutic perspectives."
meta-analysis	PPS449417	"Meta-Analysis of the Risk of Subsequent Mood Episodes in Bipolar Disorder Meta-Analysis of the Risk of Subsequent Mood Episodes in Bipolar Disorder Background: Reported relapse and recurrence rates in bipolar disorder (BD) differ significantly between studies. Most data originate from highly selective patients participating in sponsored randomized controlled trials with narrow inclusion criteria. To estimate the true risk of a subsequent mood episode (SME) under real-world conditions, we conducted a meta-analysis of rates of SME as reported in naturalistic BD studies. Methods: PubMed, ScienceDirect, Scopus, and Web of Knowledge were searched until July 2015. Studies reporting the time until the emergence of an SME, from which individual data or Kaplan-Meier plots with censors marked could be retrieved, were included. Results: Twelve studies comprising 5,837 patients met the inclusion criteria. The median time to an SME in adults after an index episode was 1.44 years. The risk of an SME was 44% during the first year. Not having a SME during this first year lowered this risk to 19% in the second year. The risk was higher in bipolar II disorder (BD-II) than in bipolar I disorder (BD-I; HR = 1.5). In BD-I, the risk of a subsequent manic, mixed, or depressive mood episode was higher after an index episode of the same polarity (HR = 1.89-5.14). The overall risk of an SME was higher in patients with persisting subsyndromal symptoms (HR = 2.17). Conclusions: The data from this study provide a more reliable estimate of the risk of an SME in BD in real-world settings. Further research into the longitudinal course of BD-II is warranted to confirm its role as a risk factor for SME."
systematic-review	PPS449470	Conditioning Immune and Endocrine Parameters in Humans: A Systematic Review Conditioning Immune and Endocrine Parameters in Humans: A Systematic Review Background: Conditioned pharmacological effects may provide relevant clinical opportunities to improve treatment for patients with a variety of conditions. The aim of this systematic review was to create an overview of studies in this field of research and to investigate whether specific characteristics of the study design make for successful conditioning. Methods: The protocol of this review was registered in Prospero (PROSPERO 2015: CRD42015024148). A systematic literature search was conducted in the databases PubMed, Embase, and PsychInfo. Studies were included if they were placebo-controlled trials in humans in which the effects of a pharmacological agent on immune or endocrine outcomes (e.g., interleukin-2 and cortisol) were conditioned, using a specific conditioned stimulus. The risk of bias of each study was assessed using the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool. Results: The final selection included 16 studies. Overall, those studies indicate that conditioning of immunosuppression, conditioning of allergic responses, and conditioning of insulin and glycemic responses is possible. Regarding immunostimulants, antiallergic effects, and cortisol conditioning, the preliminary results are promising, but additional studies are needed. Conclusions: This systematic review shows classical conditioning of immune and endocrine responses for various pharmaceutical substances. The studies reviewed here indicate that the number of acquisition and evocation sessions, and characteristics of the unconditioned and conditioned stimuli, are important determinants of the effectiveness of pharmacological conditioning on immune and endocrine parameters. In the future, conditioned pharmacological effects may be used clinically as adjunct therapy in various patient populations.
systematic-review	PPS457131	A Systematic Review of the Clinimetric Properties of the 6-Item Version of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D6) A Systematic Review of the Clinimetric Properties of the 6-Item Version of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D6) Background: In a study aimed at identifying the items carrying information regarding the global severity of depression, the 6-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D6) was derived from the original 17-item version of the scale (HAM-D17). Since then, the HAM-D6 has been used in a wide range of clinical studies. We now provide a systematic review of the clinimetric properties of HAM-D6 in comparison with those of HAM-D17 and the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Methods: We conducted a systematic search of the literature in PubMed, PsycInfo, and EMBASE databases in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guideline. Studies reporting data on the clinimetric validity of the HAM-D6 and either the HAM-D17 or MADRS in non-psychotic unipolar or bipolar depression were included in the synthesis. Results: The search identified 681 unique records, of which 51 articles met the inclusion criteria. According to the published literature, HAM-D6 has proven to be superior to both HAM-D17 and MADRS in terms of scalability (each item contains unique information regarding syndrome severity), transferability (scalability is constant over time and irrespective of sex, age, and depressive subtypes), and responsiveness (sensitivity to change in severity during treatment). Conclusions: According to the published literature, the clinimetric properties of HAM-D6 are superior to those of both the HAM-D17 and MADRS. Since the validity of HAM-D6 has been demonstrated in both research and clinical practice, using the scale more consistently would facilitate translation of results from one setting to the other.
meta-analysis	PPS477770	"Dose Escalation of Antidepressants in Unipolar Depression: A Meta-Analysis of Double-Blind, Randomized Controlled Trials Dose Escalation of Antidepressants in Unipolar Depression: A Meta-Analysis of Double-Blind, Randomized Controlled Trials Background: As many patients with unipolar depression do not respond sufficiently to initial antidepressant monotherapy, a dose increase of the current administered antidepressant (dose escalation, high-dose treatment) is frequently carried out as next treatment measure. Methods: We conducted a meta-analysis which included all double-blind randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing a dose increase of antidepressants directly to continuation of standard-dose treatment in unipolar depressive patients who were non- responders to standard-dose pharmacotherapy. A mean change in the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) total score was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes were response rates and discontinuation rates due to any reason, inefficacy, and adverse effects. Hedges g and risk ratios were calculated as effect sizes. Results: Seven double-blind RCTs (8 study arms) representing 1,208 participants were included. Fluoxetine (N [number of studies] = 2, n [number of patients] = 448), sertraline (N = 2, n = 272), paroxetine (N = 2, n = 146), duloxetine (N = 1, n = 255), and maprotiline (N = 1, n = 87) were investigated. Dose escalation was not more efficacious in HAM-D total score reduction than maintaining standard-dose treatment, neither for the pooled antidepressant group (N = 7, n = 999; Hedges g = -0.04, 95% CI: -0.20 to 0.12; p = 0.63) nor the individual antidepressants. No differences could be determined for response rates, all-cause discontinuation, and drop-outs due to inefficacy. Significantly more patients in the dose escalation group dropped out due to adverse effects than in the standard-dose continuation group. The metaregressions indicate no influence of baseline symptom severity or amounts of dose increments on effect sizes. Conclusions: According to our meta-analytic findings, dose escalation after initial non-response to standard-dose pharmacotherapy cannot be regarded as general evidence-based treatment option in unipolar depression."
meta-analysis	PPS477940	The Mortality and Myocardial Effects of Antidepressants Are Moderated by Preexisting Cardiovascular Disease: A Meta-Analysis The Mortality and Myocardial Effects of Antidepressants Are Moderated by Preexisting Cardiovascular Disease: A Meta-Analysis Background: Antidepressants (ADs) are commonly prescribed medications, but their long-term health effects are debated. ADs disrupt multiple adaptive processes regulated by evolutionarily ancient biochemicals, potentially increasing mortality. However, many ADs also have anticlotting properties that can be efficacious in treating cardiovascular disease. We conducted a meta-analysis assessing the effects of ADs on all-cause mortality and cardiovascular events in general-population and cardiovascular-patient samples. Methods: Two reviewers independently assessed articles from PubMed, EMBASE, and Google Scholar for AD-related mortality controlling for depression and other comorbidities. From these articles, we extracted information about cardiovascular events, cardiovascular risk status, and AD class. We conducted mixed-effect meta-analyses testing sample type and AD class as moderators of all-cause mortality and new cardiovascular events. Results: Seventeen studies met our search criteria. Sample type consistently moderated health risks. In general-population samples, AD use increased the risks of mortality (HR = 1.33, 95% CI: 1.14-1.55) and new cardiovascular events (HR = 1.14, 95% CI: 1.08-1.21). In cardiovascular patients, AD use did not significantly affect risks. AD class also moderated mortality, but the serotonin reuptake inhibitors were not significantly different from tricyclic ADs (TCAs) (HR = 1.10, 95% CI: 0.93-1.31, p = 0.27). Only “other ADs” were differentiable from TCAs (HR = 1.35, 95% CI: 1.08-1.69). Mortality risk estimates increased when we analyzed the subset of studies controlling for premedication depression, suggesting the absence of confounding by indication. Conclusions: The results support the hypothesis that ADs are harmful in the general population but less harmful in cardiovascular patients.
systematic-review	PPS484413	Management of Functional Somatic Syndromes and Bodily Distress Management of Functional Somatic Syndromes and Bodily Distress Functional somatic syndromes (FSS), like irritable bowel syndrome or fibromyalgia and other symptoms reflecting bodily distress, are common in practically all areas of medicine worldwide. Diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to these symptoms and syndromes vary substantially across and within medical specialties from biomedicine to psychiatry. Patients may become frustrated with the lack of effective treatment, doctors may experience these disorders as difficult to treat, and this type of health problem forms an important component of the global burden of disease. This review intends to develop a unifying perspective on the understanding and management of FSS and bodily distress. Firstly, we present the clinical problem and review current concepts for classification. Secondly, we propose an integrated etiological model which encompasses a wide range of biopsychosocial vulnerability and triggering factors and considers consecutive aggravating and maintaining factors. Thirdly, we systematically scrutinize the current evidence base in terms of an umbrella review of systematic reviews from 2007 to 2017 and give recommendations for treatment for all levels of care, concentrating on developments over the last 10 years. We conclude that activating, patient-involving, and centrally acting therapies appear to be more effective than passive ones that primarily act on peripheral physiology, and we recommend stepped care approaches that translate a truly biopsychosocial approach into actual management of the patient.
meta-analysis	PPS486696	Benzodiazepines as a Monotherapy in Depressive Disorders: A Systematic Review Benzodiazepines as a Monotherapy in Depressive Disorders: A Systematic Review Background: The aim of this paper was to perform a systematic review and, when feasible, a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCT) which used benzodiazepines (BZD) as a monotherapy versus placebo, antidepressant drugs (AD), or both. Methods: Keyword searches were conducted for identifying RCT comparing BZD and AD, and/or placebo in the treatment of depression, using electronic databases from their inception up to April 2017. We selected reports of RCT in which BZD were compared to AD and/or placebo in the treatment of adult patients with a primary diagnosis of depressive disorder or anxious depression. When feasible, data were subjected to meta-analysis. Results: A total of 38 studies met the criteria for inclusion and were then included in the systematic review. Only 1 study concerned a newer AD, fluvoxamine. For the meta-analysis, we submitted data on response rate from 22 RCT, considering BZD versus placebo (8 comparisons) and BZD versus tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) (20 comparisons). There was a lack of significant differences as to response rate between BZD and placebo, as well as between BZD and TCA. Analysis of individual studies disclosed that, in more than half of the studies comparing BZD to TCA and/or placebo, BZD were significantly more effective than placebo and as effective as TCA. Conclusions: BZD are a therapeutic option in anxious depression and there are no indications that AD are preferable. There is a pressing need for RCT of adequate methodological quality and follow-up comparing BZD to second-generation AD and placebo in anxious depression.
case-report	PSP321551	Body Dysmorphic Disorder and Depression: Phenomenological and Psychotherapeutic Aspects: A Report of Five Cases Body Dysmorphic Disorder and Depression: Phenomenological and Psychotherapeutic Aspects: A Report of Five Cases Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) is a hard-to-treat disorder that often coincides with depression and suicidal tendency. We investigate the correlations between depression and BDD in an idiographic study of 5 patients receiving treatment in the psychiatric ward of a general hospital in 2008. Among these patients we found common triggering factors – mainly separation – that were associated with humiliation, childhood stresses, worries in regard to attractiveness and masculinity, and personality structures showing dependent-avoidant, self-insecure and sensitive traits, as described by Kretschmer. It transpired that their BDD had developed out of a self-aggravating cycle of shame, controlling actions, alienation and self-disempowerment. After a certain period their self-disempowerment then gradually transforms into a depressive cycle of despair, increased withdrawal, inward-directed anger and self-depreciation. These correlations indicate that the depressive symptomatology among these patients can be better classified as adjustment disorder in regard to their BDD than as independent major depression. Finally, we present dance/movement therapy as a promising additional psychotherapeutic approach that can complement the recognized therapy forms (serotonin re-uptake inhibitors and cognitive behavioral therapy).
case-report	PSP322794	Fabry’s Disease and Psychosis: Causality or Coincidence? Fabry’s Disease and Psychosis: Causality or Coincidence? A 21-year-old female with Fabry’s disease (FD) presented acute psychotic symptoms such as delusions, auditory hallucinations and formal thought disorders. Since the age of 14, she had suffered from various psychiatric symptoms increasing in frequency and intensity. We considered the differential diagnoses of prodromal symptoms of schizophrenia and organic schizophrenia-like disorder. Routine examinations including cognitive testing, electroencephalography and structural magnetic resonance imaging revealed no pathological findings. Additional structural and functional imaging demonstrated a minor CNS involvement of FD, yet without functional limitations. In summary our examination results support the thesis that in the case of our patient a mere coincidence of FD and psychotic symptoms is more likely than a causal connection.
systematic-review	PSP337748	Reduplicative Paramnesia: A Review Reduplicative Paramnesia: A Review Background: Reduplicative paramnesia (RP) is a content-specific delusional misidentification syndrome (DMS) which has received little attention in the research literature relative to other DMS. RP is thought to result from an organic rather than psychiatric cause distinguishing it from other DMS. Our systematic review examines the research literature investigating the prevalence, symptomatology and potential neurologic mechanisms underlying RP. Sampling and Methods: MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and the Cochrane Library were searched (from 1966 to February 10, 2012) with the reference lists of relevant articles examined. Case reports, clinical studies and post-mortem studies focusing on, or referring to, RP were included. Results: There is a paucity of literature regarding the potential mechanisms underlying the psychological, cognitive and neurological aspects of RP. The available literature is limited by the lack of systematic clinical studies and in vivo investigations with current findings remaining only speculative. However, there does appear to be a consensus that RP may have a neurologic rather than psychiatric cause and that right and bifrontal lesions as well as the cognitive dissonance associated with memory, visuospatial and impaired conceptual integration are common factors in RP presentation. Conclusions: This area requires further extensive systematic research with supplementary in vivo data. Current studies suggest that focal lesions within the frontal lobe may account for the onset of RP.
systematic-review	PSP337971	"The Association between Pathological Internet Use and Comorbid Psychopathology: A Systematic Review The Association between Pathological Internet Use and Comorbid Psychopathology: A Systematic Review Background: Pathological Internet use (PIU) has been conceptualized as an impulse-control disorder that shares characteristics with behavioral addiction. Research has indicated a potential link between PIU and psychopathology; however, the significance of the correlation remains ambiguous. The primary objective of this systematic review was to identify and evaluate studies performed on the correlation between PIU and comorbid psychopathology; the secondary aims were to map the geographical distribution of studies, present a current synthesis of the evidence, and assess the quality of available research. Sampling and Methods: An electronic literature search was conducted using the following databases: MEDLINE, PsycARTICLES, PsychINFO, Global Health, and Web of Science. PIU and known synonyms were included in the search. Data were extracted based on PIU and psychopathology, including depression, anxiety, symptoms of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), obsessive-compulsive symptoms, social phobia and hostility/aggression. Effect sizes for the correlations observed were identified from either the respective publication or calculated using Cohen’s d or R2. The potential effect of publication bias was assessed using a funnel plot model and evaluated by Egger’s test based on a linear regression. Results: The majority of research was conducted in Asia and comprised cross-sectional designs. Only one prospective study was identified. Twenty articles met the preset inclusion and exclusion criteria; 75% reported significant correlations of PIU with depression, 57% with anxiety, 100% with symptoms of ADHD, 60% with obsessive-compulsive symptoms, and 66% with hostility/aggression. No study reported associations between PIU and social phobia. The majority of studies reported a higher rate of PIU among males than females. The relative risks ranged from an OR of 1.02 to an OR of 11.66. The strongest correlations were observed between PIU and depression; the weakest was hostility/aggression. Conclusions: Depression and symptoms of ADHD appeared to have the most significant and consistent correlation with PIU. Associations were reported to be higher among males in all age groups. Limitations included heterogeneity in the definition and diagnosis of PIU. More studies with prospective designs in Western countries are critically needed."
research-article	PSP348487	"Family Functioning in Chinese Type 2 Diabetic Patients with and without Depressive Symptoms: A Cross-Sectional Study Family Functioning in Chinese Type 2 Diabetic Patients with and without Depressive Symptoms: A Cross-Sectional Study Background: Patients with depression or type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) often have associated impaired family functioning. The purpose of this study was: (1) to explore the family functioning of T2DM patients with and without depressive symptoms and (2) to explore the relationship between depressive symptoms and family impairment in T2DM patients with depressive symptoms. This study used a cross-sectional design. Sampling and Methods: A sample of 32 patients with T2DM who had depressive symptoms and 229 patients with T2DM who did not have depressive symptoms completed the Chinese versions of the Family Assessment Device (FAD) and the Beck Depression Inventory. Results: This study showed that there were differences in duration of diabetes and some FAD dimensions between T2DM patients with and without depressive symptoms (p &lt; 0.01). There were also differences in the frequencies of FAD dimensions between T2DM patients with and without depressive symptoms (p &lt; 0.01). Age, duration of diabetes and family function were predicting factors of depressive symptoms among T2DM patients (p &lt; 0.01). Conclusions: The T2DM patients with depressive symptoms had more unhealthy FAD dimensions than the T2DM patients without depressive symptoms. The family functioning of T2DM patients with depressive symptoms was worse than that of T2DM patients without depressive symptoms. Age, duration of diabetes and some dimensions of FAD were associated with depressive symptoms in the T2DM patients."
research-article	PSP348488	"Test-Retest Stability of the Onset of Depression Inventory Test-Retest Stability of the Onset of Depression Inventory Background: The ‘Onset of Depression Inventory' (ODI) is a patient interview developed for systematically registering the speed of onset of depression. The ODI might contribute to the detection of hidden bipolarity because in previous studies a more rapid depression onset was found in patients with bipolar compared to unipolar depression. The aim of this study was to evaluate the test-retest stability of the ODI. Patients were asked concerning the speed of onset at the time of hospitalization and again before discharge. Sampling and Methods: Test-retest stability of the ODI was investigated in 37 patients with a depressive episode. Each patient was interviewed concerning his present depressive episode by the same person at two different time points. Severity of depression at the different time points was assessed using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17) and the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (IDS-C). Results: The speed of onset as assessed with the ODI showed good test-retest stability (rho = 0.83, p &lt; 0.001). This parameter was not influenced by changes in depression severity. Conclusions: The ODI allows reliable assessment of the speed of onset of depressive episodes. The instrument might be useful for the detection of hidden bipolarity."
systematic-review	PSP357822	Creativity and Psychopathology: A Systematic Review Creativity and Psychopathology: A Systematic Review Background: The possible link between creativity and psychopathology has been a long-time focus of research up to the present day. However, the research results in this field are heterogeneous and contradictory. Links between creativity and specific psychiatric disorders have been confirmed and refuted in different studies. This disparity is partly explained by the methodological challenges peculiar to this field. Methods: In this systematic review of the literature from 1950, research articles in the field of creativity and psychopathology are presented, focusing on the methodology and results of the collected studies. Results: This review confirms the methodological problems and the heterogeneity of the study designs and results. The assessment of psychopathology, but more so of creativity, remains a fundamental challenge. On the whole, study results cautiously confirm an association between creativity and both bipolar disorder and schizotypy. Conclusion: The research on creativity and psychopathology is hampered by serious methodological problems. Study results are to be interpreted with caution and future research needs more methodological rigor.
research-article	PSP368782	The Temporal Dynamics of Cognitive Reactivity and Their Association with the Depression Risk: An Exploratory Study The Temporal Dynamics of Cognitive Reactivity and Their Association with the Depression Risk: An Exploratory Study Background: Cognitive reactivity is the change in depressive thinking in response to negative mood. Previous research indicates that cognitive reactivity is an important variable in the etiology and course of depression. The present study tested which time interval after a negative mood induction is critical for the prediction of the depression risk. Methods: Participants suffering from a major depressive disorder were recruited when entering inpatient treatment. At the end of inpatient treatment they completed an experimental procedure to assess their depressive thinking once before and twice after a negative mood induction. Subsequently, patients were followed up for 26 weeks. Results: The immediate change in depressive thinking in response to the negative mood induction was negatively associated with future depression. The delayed change did not predict the depression risk. Conclusion: The negative association between the immediate change in depressive thinking and the depression risk is not in line with results from previous studies on cognitive reactivity. Previous research on emotion context insensitivity and the avoidance of negative thoughts offers hypotheses which could account for this result. Further research is needed to shed light on the processes underlying cognitive reactivity.
research-article	PSP369859	First-Rank Symptoms and Premorbid Adjustment in Young Individuals at Increased Risk of Developing Psychosis First-Rank Symptoms and Premorbid Adjustment in Young Individuals at Increased Risk of Developing Psychosis Background: Individuals at clinical high risk (CHR) for psychosis represent a heterogeneous group with a high rate of comorbid psychiatric disorders. There is little information on whether certain qualitative aspects of psychotic symptoms among CHR individuals may be predictive of future psychosis. This study focused on describing the prevalence of first-rank symptoms (FRS) among a sample of CHR individuals and its association with future transition to psychosis and, from a neurodevelopmental perspective, the level of adjustment of individuals at CHR during their childhood was also analysed. Sampling and Methods: Participants comprised 60 individuals at CHR (according to the Comprehensive Assessment of At-Risk Mental States, CAARMS) at the time of their referral to an early intervention service and 60 healthy volunteers (HVs). All subjects were assessed by senior research clinicians using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI), and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). FRS were defined according to Kurt Schneider's original classification, and information was collected from PANSS, CAARMS and clinical reports. Early premorbid functioning was measured using the Premorbid Adjustment Scale (PAS). We grouped individuals by number and type of FRS and analysed transitions to full-blown psychosis over a 2-year follow-up period. We also correlated the general social and functional adjustment of these individuals during their childhood (6-11 years of age) with the future development of mental states at CHR and FRS. Results: Over 69% of CHR individuals had more than one DSM-IV psychiatric diagnosis, mainly within the affective and anxiety diagnostic spectra. At least one FRS was present in 43.3% of CHR individuals, and 21.6% of these had more than one. Auditory hallucinations and passivity experiences were the most commonly reported. Only 10% of individuals at CHR made a transition to first-episode psychosis (FEP) over 2 years and, except for passivity experiences, the presence of one or more FRS was not significantly associated with the transition to FEP. CHR individuals, especially those with FRS, had poorer premorbid functioning and adjustment as children across educational, social and peer relationship domains than HVs. However, this was not associated with FEP 2 years later. Conclusions: FRS might not be indicators of psychosis alone but of different psychiatric disorders. In line with the neurodevelopmental model of psychosis, individuals at CHR might be exhibiting several vulnerability traits and manifestations of abnormal developmental processes that might predict a future psychiatric disorder and/or long-term impairment.
research-article	PSP369888	From Theory to Clinical Practice: A Phenomenologically Inspired Intervention for Patients with Schizophrenia From Theory to Clinical Practice: A Phenomenologically Inspired Intervention for Patients with Schizophrenia Background: Phenomenological conceptualizations of schizophrenia regard the fundamental transformation of self-experience as the central feature of the schizophrenic state of mind. Recently, self-disorders as subtle, trait-like, merely subjective alterations of self-experience have received vast empirical attention. However, the question of how to address self-disorders psychotherapeutically has remained neglected. Methods: From phenomenologically inspired analyses of self-disorders we derive a therapeutic intervention that focuses on the following: (1) verbalizing diffuse changes in self-experiences and (2) conceptualizing these self-experiences in terms of aggravating and relieving factors in order to stimulate coping and derive targeted therapeutic interventions. Results: The clinical implementation is illustrated by two case studies. The feasibility of our approach is preliminarily supported by an exploratory study. Conclusions: This intervention seems promising in assisting patients to develop an embodied and enacted understanding of self-disorders.
meta-analysis	PSP448624	Attentional Bias for Emotional Stimuli in Borderline Personality Disorder: A Meta-Analysis Attentional Bias for Emotional Stimuli in Borderline Personality Disorder: A Meta-Analysis Background: In borderline personality disorder (BPD), attentional bias (AB) to emotional stimuli may be a core component in disorder pathogenesis and maintenance. Sampling: 11 emotional Stroop task (EST) studies with 244 BPD patients, 255 nonpatients (NPs) and 95 clinical controls and 4 visual dot-probe task (VDPT) studies with 151 BPD patients or subjects with BPD features and 62 NPs were included. Methods: We conducted two separate meta-analyses for AB in BPD. One meta-analysis focused on the EST for generally negative and BPD-specific/personally relevant negative words. The other meta-analysis concentrated on the VDPT for negative and positive facial stimuli. Results: There is evidence for an AB towards generally negative emotional words compared to NPs (standardized mean difference, SMD = 0.311) and to other psychiatric disorders (SMD = 0.374) in the EST studies. Regarding BPD-specific/personally relevant negative words, BPD patients reveal an even stronger AB than NPs (SMD = 0.454). The VDPT studies indicate a tendency towards an AB to positive facial stimuli but not negative stimuli in BPD patients compared to NPs. Conclusions: The findings rather reflect an AB in BPD to generally negative and BPD-specific/personally relevant negative words rather than an AB in BPD towards facial stimuli, and/or a biased allocation of covert attentional resources to negative emotional stimuli in BPD and not a bias in focus of visual attention. Further research regarding the role of childhood traumatization and comorbid anxiety disorders may improve the understanding of these underlying processes.
systematic-review	PSP455256	Men's Views on Depression: A Systematic Review and Metasynthesis of Qualitative Research Men's Views on Depression: A Systematic Review and Metasynthesis of Qualitative Research Background: According to the concept of “male depression,” depression among men might be underdiagnosed and undertreated because of gender differences in symptoms and coping. There is evidence that men experience atypical depressive symptoms including irritability, aggression, substance abuse, and increased risk behavior. To date, a substantial number of qualitative studies on men's views on depression has been conducted in the last few decades. Methods: Based on a systematic review and metasynthesis of qualitative studies on men's subjective perspectives on depression, we aim at a comprehensive understanding of men's subjective views on depression with a specific focus on masculinity constructions. Results: Based on 34 studies assessed as appropriate for the study, 2 overarching subthemes could be identified: normative expectations regarding masculinity ideals and men's subjective perspectives of depression as “weakness.” Men's strategies include denial of “weakness” and “closing up.” Further themes include suicide, masculinity ideals as a healthy resource, and alternative masculinities. Discussion/Conclusions: Traditional masculinity values might serve as barriers but also as facilitators to adaptive coping strategies in depressed men. More research is needed to study the dimensions and role of alternative masculinities in the context of depression.
review-article	PSP477775	Disturbances of Embodiment as Core Phenomena of Depression in Clinical Practice Disturbances of Embodiment as Core Phenomena of Depression in Clinical Practice This paper proposes a phenomenological approach to the diagnosis of depression, with the aim of overcoming the broadness and nonspecificity of the concept of major depressive disorder (MDD) in current systems of diagnostic classification of mental disorders. Firstly, we outline the methodological limitations of the current classification systems for the diagnosis of MDD. Secondly, we offer a conceptual differentiation between a “symptomatological” versus a “phenomenological” diagnosis of depression. Thirdly, we propose characteristic “disturbances of embodiment” as the fundamental phenomena of “core depression”, which manifest themselves in 3 dimensions: embodied self, embodied intentionality, and embodied time. A more useful diagnosis of depression may be achieved by describing the phenomena that constitute a core depression, in order to avoid the overdiagnosis of MDD and its negative consequences in clinical practice.
review-article	PSP479071	Schizophrenia, Self, and Person: Eugen Bleuler and Arthur Kronfeld on a Conceptual Alliance Schizophrenia, Self, and Person: Eugen Bleuler and Arthur Kronfeld on a Conceptual Alliance The conceptual history of schizophrenia is marked by considerable dissent about its nosological status, and the question of whether it represents a distinct disease entity remains hotly debated. Another recurring feature in the conceptual history of schizophrenia is the reference to concepts of self and person. This paper brings in connection these two debates by interrogating the nosological function of “self” and “person” by means of a fictitious dialogue between Eugen Bleuler, the inventor of schizophrenia, and his contemporary Arthur Kronfeld. Introducing their respective accounts of schizophrenia with a special focus on how concepts of self and person figure therein, our analysis suggests that these concepts are primarily employed in an attempt to guarantee the nosological unity of schizophrenia: mediated by the concept of a core disturbance, alterations of the self or the person thus become the essential core of schizophrenia. Yet, rather than providing an easy solution to the nosological problem of the unity of schizophrenia, the concepts of self and person and their assumed disturbances are themselves fraught with debates about unity. We discuss these conceptual challenges in light of present-day nosological debates and the currently abounding research on the self.
review-article	PSP479235	The Etiology of Hoarding Disorder: A Review The Etiology of Hoarding Disorder: A Review This article will review the evidence of various proposed factors that contribute to the onset and maintenance of hoarding disorder (HD). Data suggests that hoarding is a chronic condition that starts early in life and does not remit if left untreated. There is emerging evidence that a number of factors contribute to the expression of HD symptoms, including genetics, neurocognitive functioning, attachments to possessions, beliefs, avoidance, personality factors, and life events. The extent to which each etiological factor uniquely contributes to hoarding is still unknown. Other demographic factors, such as socioeconomic status, age, and gender, may impact hoarding severity. Research on the causes and characteristics of hoarding has recently started making progress into understanding this newly recognized disorder, yet we still have a ways to go in understanding the biological and environmental causes. This paper will synthesize available literature on the etiology of HD.
meta-analysis	PSP481950	Did the DSM-5 Improve the Traumatic Stressor Criterion?: Association of DSM-IV and DSM-5 Criterion A with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Symptoms Did the DSM-5 Improve the Traumatic Stressor Criterion?: Association of DSM-IV and DSM-5 Criterion A with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Symptoms Objective: A recent meta-analysis found that DSM-III- and DSM-IV-defined traumas were associated with only slightly higher posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms than nontraumatic stressors. The current study is the first to examine whether DSM-5-defined traumas were associated with higher levels of PTSD than DSM-IV-defined traumas. Further, we examined theoretically relevant event characteristics to determine whether characteristics other than those outlined in the DSM could predict PTSD symptoms. Method: One hundred six women who had experienced a trauma or significant stressor completed questionnaires assessing PTSD, depression, impairment, and event characteristics. Events were rated for whether they qualified as DSM-IV and DSM-5 trauma. Results: There were no significant differences between DSM-IV-defined traumas and stressors. For DSM-5, effect sizes were slightly larger but still nonsignificant (except for significantly higher hyperarousal following traumas vs. stressors). Self-reported fear for one's life significantly predicted PTSD symptoms. Conclusions: Our results indicate that the current DSM-5 definition of trauma, although a slight improvement from DSM-IV, is not highly predictive of who develops PTSD symptoms. Our study also indicates the importance of individual perception of life threat in the prediction of PTSD.
review-article	PSP491702	Childhood Adversity and Psychophysiological Reactivity to Pain in Adolescent Nonsuicidal Self-Injury Childhood Adversity and Psychophysiological Reactivity to Pain in Adolescent Nonsuicidal Self-Injury Background: Nonsuicidal self-injury (NSSI), the intentional, self-directed act of injuring one’s own body tissue, is a behavioral phenomenon closely linked to stress and its maladaptive regulation. NSSI is associated with childhood adversity that may underlie altered hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and autonomic nervous system response to stress in adolescents engaging in NSSI. Adolescents engaging in NSSI show decreased pain sensitivity and increased psychophysiological response to pain that may underlie the maintenance of the behavior and its stress-regulating function. Sampling and Methods: In a secondary analysis of previously published data we aimed to address the relationship between childhood adversity and altered psychophysiological pain response in an outpatient sample of n = 30 adolescents engaging in repetitive NSSI. Results: Greater childhood adversity is associated with greater cortisol secretion and increased and prolonged autonomic arousal following pain induction. Conclusions: The findings illustrate a potential neurobiological pathway linking childhood adversity to hyporesponsiveness of endogenous stress response systems that in turn show increased reactivity to the experience of pain. This hyperreactivity may counterbalance an inadequate stress response and in turn help to cope with stressful experiences. Directions for future research are discussed.
systematic-review	RES321231	Validated Methods of Cough Assessment: A Systematic Review of the Literature Validated Methods of Cough Assessment: A Systematic Review of the Literature Background: Cough is a common symptom for which patients often seek medical advice and consume vast amounts of drugs. It is a real challenge for both the physician and the clinical researcher to evaluate a cough’s clinical importance and its precise response to treatment. Objectives: This systematic literature review has the following objectives: first, to make an inventory of the validated tools for assessing cough, and second, to investigate the extent to which the results of various assessment methods can be correlated. Methods: Two independent investigators searched the Medline, Embase, and Cochrane databases for validation studies on cough assessment tools. Results: Thirty-four studies were included. Several ambulatory cough monitors automatically identify cough and have been validated in a limited number of patients. Three cough-specific quality-of-life scales (Leicester Cough Questionnaire, Cough Quality of Life Questionnaire, and Burden of Cough Questionnaire) have been validated. No validation studies of descriptive scores or visual analogue scales were found. The correlations between quality-of-life scores and cough frequency were good. The correlations between descriptive scores or visual analogue scales and more objective methods, such as cough frequency monitoring or quality-of-life scores, were inconsistent. Conclusion: Cough-specific quality-of-life questionnaires can provide valid outcomes for research into cough. Although the current developments in cough monitoring devices are promising, further studies on a larger scale, under more realistic conditions, and for different patterns of cough are required before they can be recommended for widespread use.
case-report	RES323870	Cardiac Tamponade following Transbronchial Needle Aspiration Cardiac Tamponade following Transbronchial Needle Aspiration Bronchoscopic transbronchial fine needle aspiration of the mediastinum is generally known as a safe procedure. Complications such as pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum, major bronchial haemorrhage and significant bleeding after a major vessel puncture are rare events. We report the first case, to our knowledge, of life-threatening cardiac tamponade following transbronchial fine needle aspiration in precarinal location.
case-report	RES324256	Tracheobronchial Amyloidosis and Confocal Endomicroscopy Tracheobronchial Amyloidosis and Confocal Endomicroscopy Tracheobronchial amyloidosis is one of many causes of endobronchial stenosis and nodularity, the concrete diagnosis of which currently requires the finding of apple-green birefringence from endobronchial biopsies. Bronchoscopic probe-based confocal endomicroscopy (pCLE) is a novel optical biopsy technique which provides real-time images of the lattice structure of the bronchial basement membrane – a finding lost in malignancy. This case study outlines the imperfect, essentially palliative management of this rare disease, and shows for the first time the unusual dappled in vivo pCLE images of amyloid-affected endobronchium.
research-article	RES346648	Inhibitory Effect of Mitomycin C on Proliferation of Primary Cultured Fibroblasts from Human Airway Granulation Tissues Inhibitory Effect of Mitomycin C on Proliferation of Primary Cultured Fibroblasts from Human Airway Granulation Tissues Background: Airway granulation tissue and scar formation pose a challenge because of the high incidence of recurrence after treatment. As an emerging treatment modality, topical application of mitomycin C has potential value in delaying the recurrence of airway obstruction. Several animal and clinical studies have already proven its feasibility and efficacy. However, the ideal dosage has still not been determined. Objectives: To establish a novel method for culturing primary fibroblasts isolated from human airway granulation tissue, and to investigate the dose-effect of mitomycin C on the fibroblast proliferation in vitro, so as to provide an experimental reference for clinical practitioners. Methods: Granulation tissues were collected during the routine bronchoscopy at our department. The primary fibroblasts were obtained by culturing the explanted tissues. The cells were treated with different concentrations of mitomycin C (0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 mg/ml) for 5 min followed by additional 48-hour culture before an MTT assay was performed to measure cell viability. Results: MTT assay showed that mitomycin C reduced cell viability at all tested concentrations. The inhibitory ratios were 10.26, 26.77, 32.88, 64.91 and 80.45% for cells treated with mitomycin C at 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 mg/ml, respectively. Conclusions: Explant culture is a reliable method for culturing primary fibroblasts from human airway granulation tissue, and mitomycin C can inhibit proliferation of the fibroblasts in vitro.
systematic-review	RES350466	Transbronchial Needle Aspiration: A Systematic Review on Predictors of a Successful Aspirate Transbronchial Needle Aspiration: A Systematic Review on Predictors of a Successful Aspirate Background: Transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) is a safe and useful sampling technique for the diagnosis of mediastinal adenopathies/masses, but its accuracy seems to be influenced by selected clinical and procedural aspects. Objectives: We performed a systematic review to identify the main predictors of a successful transbronchial aspirate according to different clinical settings. Methods: We searched Medline and Embase for all studies evaluating predictors of TBNA diagnostic yield, published up to February 2012. Two authors reviewed all titles/abstracts and retrieved the full text of articles that are potentially relevant to identify studies according to predefined selection criteria. The methodological quality of studies was assessed through the revised Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies tool. Evidence synthesis was graded according to overall number of studies, patients involved and methodological features. Results: Fifty-three studies, involving more than 8,000 patients and evaluating 23 potential predictive factors, were included. Major predictors in an unselected population, as well as in patients with suspected/known lung cancer, included lymph node size (short axis length ≥2 cm), presence of abnormal endoscopic findings, subcarinal and right paratracheal location, and the use of histological needle by an experienced bronchoscopist. Stage I and sampling of more than one lymph node stations were the only predictors of a successful TBNA result in patients with suspected sarcoidosis. Conclusions: The diagnostic yield of TBNA depends on selected clinical and procedural features. Knowledge of factors that predict a positive TBNA result may help optimize the diagnostic success of the procedure in different clinical settings.
systematic-review	RES350917	"A Systematic Review of the Association between Pulmonary Tuberculosis and the Development of Chronic Airflow Obstruction in Adults A Systematic Review of the Association between Pulmonary Tuberculosis and the Development of Chronic Airflow Obstruction in Adults Background: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major public health concern, accounting for 3 million deaths annually, 90% of which occur in low- and middle-income countries. Pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) as a contributory factor in the aetiology of COPD is under debate, with most epidemiologic evidence suggesting a positive association. Objectives: To compile a systematic review of evidence for an association between PTB and the development of chronic airflow obstruction (CAO). Methods: We performed a systematic review of original English-language, peer-reviewed literature using the PubMed/MEDLINE database. CAO was defined by spirometry [FEV1:FVC ratio &lt;0.70 or &lt;LLN (lower limit of normal) for age]. Results: Nineteen studies (1 case series, 3 case-control studies, 4 cohort studies, 8 single-centre cross-sectional studies and 3 multi-centre cross-sectional studies) met the eligibility criteria. All but 2 reported a positive association between PTB and CAO. Three of 4 large population-based surveys (n = 4,291-8,066) confirmed a significant association between PTB and CAO (OR 1.37 - 2.94). A formal meta-analysis was not possible owing to marked heterogeneity between studies. Conclusions: This systematic review confirms evidence for a positive association between a past history of tuberculosis and the presence of CAO. The association is independent of cigarette smoking. Causality is likely but cannot be assumed."
systematic-review	RES357066	Complication Rate of Endosonography (Endobronchial and Endoscopic Ultrasound): A Systematic Review Complication Rate of Endosonography (Endobronchial and Endoscopic Ultrasound): A Systematic Review Background: Endosonography [endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine needle aspiration and endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS)-guided transbronchial needle aspiration] is increasingly used for lung cancer staging and the assessment of sarcoidosis. Serious adverse events (SAE) have been reported in case reports, but the true incidence of complications is yet unknown. Objectives: To assess the rate of SAE related to endosonography and to investigate associated risk factors. Materials and Methods: PubMed, EMBASE and Cochrane libraries were searched for eligible references up to April 2012 and these included studies reporting on linear EUS or EBUS for the analysis of mediastinal/hilar nodal or central intrapulmonary lesions. Case series describing complications were excluded. Reported complications were classified into SAE or minor adverse events (AE). Results: 190 studies met the inclusion criteria. Information on follow-up was missing in half of the studies. In 16,181 patients, 23 SAE (0.14%) and 35 AE (0.22%) were reported. No mortality was observed. SAE were more frequent in patients investigated with EUS (0.30%) than in those investigated with EBUS (0.05%). Infectious SAE were most prevalent (0.07%) and predominantly occurred in patients with cystic lesions and sarcoidosis. In lung cancer patients, complications were rare. Discussion: Endosonography for intrathoracic nodal assessment seems safe for lung cancer patients and mortality has not been reported. For cystic lesions and sarcoidosis, there may be a small, but nonnegligible risk of infectious complications. The true incidence of SAE might be higher as accurate documentation of complications is missing in most studies.
meta-analysis	RES369561	Incidence of Respiratory Viral Infections Detected by PCR and Real-Time PCR in Adult Patients with Community-Acquired Pneumonia: A Meta-Analysis Incidence of Respiratory Viral Infections Detected by PCR and Real-Time PCR in Adult Patients with Community-Acquired Pneumonia: A Meta-Analysis Background: With the development of more rapid and sensitive detection methods based on PCR techniques, the contributions of respiratory viral infections to community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adult patients are being more and more recognized. Yet, up to now, there has been a lack of synthetic data that clearly demonstrates the incidence of respiratory viral infections in adult patients with CAP. Objectives: We intended to demonstrate the incidence of respiratory viral infections detected by PCR and real-time PCR in adult patients with CAP. Methods: We searched PubMed and Embase for studies providing the incidence of respiratory viral infections in adult patients with CAP. We investigated potential sources of heterogeneity by a univariant metaregression analysis and calculated the combined incidence of viral infections, viral infections mixed with other pathogens and individual respiratory virus species. Results: We eventually identified 23 eligible reports with a total number of 6,404 patients. Incidences ranged from 8.6 to 56.2% for overall respiratory viral infections. We noted significant heterogeneity in incidence estimates for the incidence of viral infections (Cochran's &
systematic-review	RES369863	"Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and Diabetes Mellitus: A Systematic Review of the Literature Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and Diabetes Mellitus: A Systematic Review of the Literature The objective of this systematic review was to discuss our current understanding of the complex relationship between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). We performed a systematic search of the literature related to both COPD and diabetes using PubMed. Relevant data connecting both diseases were compiled and discussed. Recent evidence suggests that diabetes can worsen the progression and prognosis of COPD; this may result from the direct effects of hyperglycemia on lung physiology, inflammation or susceptibility to bacterial infection. Conversely, it has also been suggested that COPD increases the risk of developing T2DM as a consequence of inflammatory processes and/or therapeutic side effects related to the use of high-dose corticosteroids. In conclusion, although there is evidence to support a connection between COPD and diabetes, additional research is needed to better understand these relationships and their possible implications."
research-article	RES371355	"Underdiagnosis of Obstructive Sleep Apnoea in Peripheral Arterial Disease Underdiagnosis of Obstructive Sleep Apnoea in Peripheral Arterial Disease Background: Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) has interdependently been related to the onset and progression of a large portion of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disorders. In due consideration of OSA-mediated endothelial dysfunction, its impact on peripheral artery disease is conceivable, but undefined. Objectives: The aim of this study was to identify the prevalence of OSA in a lower extremity artery disease (LEAD) study population. Methods: A total of 91 patients receiving in- and outpatient treatment for LEAD were included in this prospectively conducted trial. In addition to an angiological examination, all patients underwent nocturnal screening for sleep-disordered breathing by use of SOMNOcheck micro® (SC micro) and - depending on the results obtained - polysomnography. Results: Patients were principally late middle-aged (69.3 ± 10.8 years), male (71.4%) and slightly overweight (BMI 26.8 ± 3.9). Overnight screening determined a sleep apnoea prevalence of 78.0%, of which 90.1% exhibited a predominantly obstructive genesis. The mean apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI; events/h) and oxygen desaturation index (events/h) averaged 11.8 ± 13.4 and 8.9 ± 14.2, respectively. The individual AHI categories of non-pathological (&lt;5), mild (5 to &lt;15), moderate (15 to &lt;30) and severe sleep apnoea (≥30) accounted for 22.0, 59.3, 13.2 and 5.5%, respectively. A distributive examination of AHI within LEAD severity groups evinced a significant association (p = 0.047). In cases of at least moderate sleep apnoea (AHI ≥15) polysomnography was performed (n = 17, 18.7% of the whole collective). Correlative analysis revealed a significant correlation between values obtained by SC micro recording and polysomnography, establishing the diagnostic accuracy of the screening results. Conclusions: OSA exhibits an important prevalence of 70.3% in LEAD patients with prior undiagnosed sleep-disordered breathing, indicating major OSA unawareness in this cardiovascular cohort. However, the impact of OSA treatment on LEAD propagation remains to be determined."
meta-analysis	RES431384	"Bronchoscopic Coil Treatment for Patients with Severe Emphysema: A Meta-Analysis Bronchoscopic Coil Treatment for Patients with Severe Emphysema: A Meta-Analysis Background: Bronchoscopic coil treatment has been shown to improve pulmonary function, exercise capacity, and quality of life in patients with severe emphysema. Objectives: To perform a meta-analysis of the results of four independent European clinical trials investigating this coil therapy for emphysema. Methods: Data on all patients included in the four European clinical trials were analyzed for efficacy and safety outcomes. Results: A total of 2,536 coils were placed during 259 procedures in 140 patients. A total of 37 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbations and 27 pneumonias were recorded as serious adverse events up to 1 year after treatment. The pneumothorax rate was 6.4%. Both 6 and 12 months after treatment, significant (all p &lt; 0.001) improvements were observed for: forced expiratory volume in 1 s [+0.08 liters (±0.19) and +0.08 liters (±0.21)], residual volume [RV; -510 ml (±850) and -430 ml (±720)], 6-min walking distance [6MWD; +44.1 m (±69.8) and +38.1 m (±71.9)], and St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire score [SGRQ; -9.5 points (±14.3) and -7.7 points (±14.2)]. No differences in any outcome measures were observed between heterogeneous and homogeneous emphysema patients. Only a high baseline RV was found to be an independent predictor of successful treatment. Conclusions: Bronchoscopic coil treatment improves pulmonary function, 6MWD, and quality of life in patients with severe emphysema up to 1 year after treatment, independent of the distribution of the disease."
case-report	RES441799	Autologous Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells as Treatment in Refractory Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Autologous Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells as Treatment in Refractory Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Background: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a devastating disorder. Despite enormous efforts in clinical research, effective treatment options are lacking, and mortality rates remain unacceptably high. Objectives: A male patient with severe ARDS showed no clinical improvement with conventional therapies. Hence, an emergent experimental intervention was performed. Methods: We performed intratracheal administration of autologous peripheral blood-derived mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and erythropoietin (EPO). Results: We found that after 2 days of initial PBMC/EPO application, lung function improved and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support was reduced. Bronchoscopy and serum inflammatory markers revealed reduced inflammation. Additionally, serum concentration of miR-449a, b, c and miR-34a, a transient upregulation of E-cadherin and associated chromatin marks in PBMCs indicated airway epithelial differentiation. Extracellular vesicles from PBMCs demonstrated anti-inflammatory capacity in a TNF-a-mediated nuclear factor-&
meta-analysis	RES444089	"Safety and Diagnostic Yield of Transbronchial Lung Cryobiopsy in Diffuse Parenchymal Lung Diseases: A Comparative Study versus Video-Assisted Thoracoscopic Lung Biopsy and a Systematic Review of the Literature Safety and Diagnostic Yield of Transbronchial Lung Cryobiopsy in Diffuse Parenchymal Lung Diseases: A Comparative Study versus Video-Assisted Thoracoscopic Lung Biopsy and a Systematic Review of the Literature Background: A diagnosis of interstitial lung diseases (ILDs) may include surgical lung biopsy (SLB), which is associated with significant morbidity and mortality and also appreciable costs. Transbronchial lung cryobiopsy (TBLC) is adopting an important role. Objectives: The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic yield (DY) and safety of TBLC and SLB in a large cohort of patients and to perform a systematic review of the literature as well as a meta-analysis. Methods: We performed a retrospective analysis of 447 cases with ILD undergoing TBLC and/or SLB and a systematic review of the literature (MEDLINE and Embase for all original articles on the DY and safety of TBLC in ILDs up to July 2015). Results: A total of 150 patients underwent SLB and 297 underwent TBLC. The median time of hospitalization was 6.1 days (SLB) and 2.6 days (TBLC; p &lt; 0.0001). Mortality due to adverse events was observed for 2.7% (SLB) and 0.3% (TBLC) of the patients. Pneumothorax was the most common complication after TBLC (20.2%). No severe bleeding was observed. TBLC was diagnostic for 246 patients (82.8%), SLB for 148 patients (98.7%, p = 0.013). A meta-analysis of 15 investigations including 781 patients revealed an overall DY of 0.81 (0.75-0.87); the overall pooled probability of developing a pneumothorax, as retrieved from 15 studies including 994 patients, was 0.06 (95% CI 0.02-0.11). Conclusion: Cryobiopsy is safe and has lower complication and mortality rates compared to SLB. TBLC might, therefore, be considered the first diagnostic approach for obtaining tissue in ILDs, reserving the surgical approach for cases in which TBLC is not diagnostic."
systematic-review	RES444264	Characteristics of Patients with Lymphangioleiomyomatosis and Pleural Effusion: A Systematic Review Characteristics of Patients with Lymphangioleiomyomatosis and Pleural Effusion: A Systematic Review The characteristics of patients with lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) are poorly defined, as they may present with or without pleural effusion (PE). We performed a systematic review across four electronic databases searching for studies reporting clinical findings, PE characteristics, and the most effective treatment of LAM. Case descriptions and retrospective studies were included, unrestricted by year of publication. The review consisted of 94 studies (199 patients) spanning a period of nearly 55 years. The median age was 38 years (range: 1 month to 69 years), and 79.7% were between 21 and 50 years old. All cases had dyspnea, 95% had a cough, and 87.5% had chest pain. PE was exudative chylothorax, usually unilateral (76%) and right-sided, predominantly lymphocytic, and with proportionately higher levels of proteins than lactate dehydrogenase. Sirolimus was effective in all cases, completely in 87%, and partially in 13%, although the number of patients receiving sirolimus was small. The present study confirmed that LAM and PE mainly occur in women of childbearing age (third to fifth decade of life). PE was usually unilateral and presented as a lymphocyte-predominant chylous exudate. The most effective treatment for PE seems to be sirolimus, although studies with larger series are needed to confirm this.
case-report	RES448846	Successful Treatment of Fibrosing Organising Pneumonia Causing Respiratory Failure with Mycophenolic Acid Successful Treatment of Fibrosing Organising Pneumonia Causing Respiratory Failure with Mycophenolic Acid Organising pneumonia (OP) is usually promptly responsive to corticosteroid treatment. We describe a series of 3 cases of severe, progressive, biopsy-proven fibrosing OP causing respiratory failure. All cases presented with peribronchial and subpleural consolidations, had a fibro-inflammatory infiltrative component in the alveolar septa, and only had a partial and unsatisfactory response to corticosteroids. However, they responded to mycophenolic acid (MPA) treatment with resolution of respiratory failure as well as clinical and functional improvement. MPA as an additional treatment option for aggressive forms of fibrosing OP and interstitial lung disease needs to be further explored.
case-report	RES450555	"The Impact of Case Finding on the Recruitment Yield for COPD Research in Primary Care: An Observational Study The Impact of Case Finding on the Recruitment Yield for COPD Research in Primary Care: An Observational Study Background: Recruiting patients for research in primary care is difficult with diseases that tend to remain underdiagnosed, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Researchers may consider introducing case finding into patient recruitment, but the impact on recruitment yield is largely unknown. Objectives: To assess the impact of case finding on recruitment yield and population characteristics in primary care-based COPD research. Methods: For a cluster randomized controlled trial of COPD in primary care, an opportunistic case finding strategy was introduced into patient recruitment, in addition to recruiting patients with previously diagnosed COPD. The recruitment process and performance of the primary care physicians (PCPs) were analysed. The numbers and characteristics of patients identified by case finding were compared with those of patients with previously diagnosed COPD. Results: Thirty-five PCPs approached 398 patients and successfully recruited 216 patients during 1 year. The mean number of patients recruited was 6.3 (range 0-16) per PCP. Case finding contributed 71 patients (32.9%) with significantly milder disease, with FEV1 % predicted +16.7 (95% CI: +11.3 to +22.0), a COPD Assessment Test difference of -4 points (95% CI: -2 to -6; p &lt; 0.001), and fewer exacerbations resulting in a higher rate of GOLD class A (85.9 vs. 45.5%; p &lt; 0.001). The smoking rate was significantly higher among patients with newly diagnosed COPD (70.4 vs. 48.6%; p = 0.002). Conclusion: Case finding increased the number of patients recruited by 50%. The COPD patients identified by case finding differed importantly from those with previously diagnosed COPD. Researchers should be aware of COPD underdiagnosis and the potential impact of case finding during patient recruitment."
review-article	RES452957	Precapillary Pulmonary Hypertension and Sleep-Disordered Breathing: Is There a Link? Precapillary Pulmonary Hypertension and Sleep-Disordered Breathing: Is There a Link? Among patients with sleep apnea the reported prevalence of precapillary pulmonary hypertension (PH) has varied largely, depending on patient selection, disease definition, and associated conditions, in particular chronic pulmonary disease. However, in the absence of comorbidities, PH seems to be rare in patients with sleep apnea. Conversely, sleep-related breathing disorders have been commonly found in patients with PH and they have been associated with an impaired quality of life. Since sleep-related breathing disorders may affect the pulmonary circulation and vice versa, patients with sleep-related breathing disorders should be evaluated for risk factors, symptoms and clinical signs of PH and right ventricular heart failure and patients with PH should be evaluated for sleep apnea. Therapeutic options for patients with sleep apnea and PH may include supplemental oxygen, drugs and positive pressure ventilation. Both nocturnal oxygen administration and acetazolamide have been shown to improve sleep apnea in patients with PH. In addition, oxygen therapy also improved exercise performance. Further studies are needed to corroborate the efficacy of these and other treatments.
meta-analysis	RES452958	"Esophageal Endosonography for the Diagnosis of Intrapulmonary Tumors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Esophageal Endosonography for the Diagnosis of Intrapulmonary Tumors: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Biopsy-based diagnosis in patients with paraesophageal intrapulmonary tumors suspected of lung cancer is crucial for adequate treatment planning. Objective: To evaluate the performance of transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in the diagnosis of intrapulmonary tumors located near or adjacent to the esophagus. Methods: We performed a systematic review (PROSPERO, CRD42016033737) and searched MEDLINE, Embase, BIOSIS Previews, and Web of Science on September 22, 2016, without date or language restrictions. We included studies that evaluated the yield and/or sensitivity of EUS-FNA for diagnosing intrapulmonary tumors. Yield was defined as the number of patients in whom EUS-FNA made a biopsy-proven diagnosis (malignant or nonmalignant) relative to the total number of patients on whom EUS-FNA was performed. Sensitivity was defined as the number of patients in whom EUS-FNA made a biopsy-proven diagnosis of malignancy relative to the total number of patients in whom the tumor was found to be malignant. We performed a random-effects meta-analysis. Results: Of 3,320 search results, 11 studies were included. Ten had a high risk of bias. The total number of patients was 313; the proportion of patients with malignancy ranged from 87 to 100% across these studies. The average yield was 0.90 (95% CI 0.82-0.95) and the average sensitivity was 0.92 (0.83-0.96). In the subgroup of prospective studies (n = 3), the average yield was 0.80 (0.56-0.93) and the average sensitivity was 0.83 (0.58-0.95). EUS-FNA-induced complications were reported for 5/256 patients (2.0%) for whom this information was available. Conclusions: Although the number of high-quality studies is limited, these findings suggest that EUS-FNA is safe and has a high yield for diagnosing intrapulmonary tumors."
systematic-review	RES464331	Simulation-Based Training in Flexible Bronchoscopy and Endobronchial Ultrasound-Guided Transbronchial Needle Aspiration (EBUS-TBNA): A Systematic Review Simulation-Based Training in Flexible Bronchoscopy and Endobronchial Ultrasound-Guided Transbronchial Needle Aspiration (EBUS-TBNA): A Systematic Review Background: The use of simulators in a training programme for technically challenging procedures has the advantages of lowering the risk of patient complications while helping the trainees with the initial part of their learning curve. Objectives: The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review of simulation-based training in flexible bronchoscopy and endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS). Methods: We identified 1,006 publications in the PubMed database and included publications on flexible bronchoscopy below the carina and EBUS involving hands-on simulation-based training. Publications were excluded if they were written in languages other than English, if paediatric airways were involved or if they were not journal articles. The screening process was performed by 2 individuals, and a third reviewer made the final decision in case of disagreement. Results: We included 30 publications. The studies included participants of varying experience and most commonly used a virtual reality simulator as a training modality. Assessment of the participants' skills was based on simulator metrics or on an assessment tool. Some studies included performance on patients for assessment of the operator after training on a simulator. Conclusions: Simulation-based training was demonstrated to be more efficient than the traditional apprenticeship model. Physical models and virtual reality simulators complement each other. Simulation-based education should be based on a mastery learning approach and structured as directed self-regulated learning in a distributed training programme.
meta-analysis	RES468545	"Diagnostic Accuracy of Combinations of Tumor Markers for Malignant Pleural Effusion: An Updated Meta-Analysis Diagnostic Accuracy of Combinations of Tumor Markers for Malignant Pleural Effusion: An Updated Meta-Analysis Background: The role of combinations of tumor markers such as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigens (CA) 125, 15-3, and 19-9, and CYFRA 21-1 (a fragment of cytokeratin 19) in diagnosing malignant pleural effusion (MPE) has not been clearly established. Objectives: This meta-analysis was performed to establish the overall diagnostic accuracies of combinations of these pleural fluid tumor markers for MPE. Methods: The PubMed, Ovid, Embase, Web of Science, and Cochrane bibliographic databases were searched. Sensitivity, specificity, and other measures of the accuracy of combinations of pleural CEA, CA 125, CA 15-3, CA 19-9, and CYFRA 21-1 in the diagnosis of MPE were pooled after a systematic review of English-language studies. Results: Twenty studies met the inclusion criteria. For pleural fluid tumor marker combinations including more than 3 studies, the summary estimates of the sensitivity/specificity for diagnosing MPE were as follows: CEA + CA 125, 0.65/0.98; CEA + CA 15-3, 0.64/0.98; CEA + CA 19-9, 0.58/0.98; CEA + CYFRA 21-1, 0.82/0.92; and CA 15-3 + CYFRA 21-1, 0.88/0.94. Conclusions: In patients with undiagnosed pleural effusion, the combinations of positive pleural CEA + CA 15-3 and CEA + CA 19-9 are highly suspicious for pleural malignancy, but the sensitivity of these tests is poor. Therefore, their routine role in the diagnostic algorithm of these patients is questionable, and management decisions should depend on positive cytological or biopsy results from the pleura."
meta-analysis	RES470915	Pneumonia Severity Assessment Tools for Predicting Mortality in Patients with Healthcare-Associated Pneumonia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Pneumonia Severity Assessment Tools for Predicting Mortality in Patients with Healthcare-Associated Pneumonia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: In contrast to community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), no specific severity assessment tools have been developed for healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP) in clinical practice. Objectives: In this review, we assessed the clinical significance of severity assessment tools for HCAP. Methods: We identified related articles from the PubMed database. The eligibility criteria were original research articles evaluating severity scoring tools and reporting the outcomes of mortality in patients with HCAP. Results: Eight articles were included in the meta-analysis. The PORT score and CURB-65 were evaluated in 7 and 8 studies, respectively. Using cutoff values of ≥IV and V for the PORT score, the diagnostic odds ratios (DORs) were 5.28 (2.49-11.17) and 3.76 (2.88-4.92), respectively, and the areas under the curve (AUCs) were 0.68 (0.64-0.72) and 0.71 (0.67-0.75), respectively. Conversely, the AUCs for ≥IV and V were 0.71 (0.67-0.76) and 0.74 (0.70-0.78), respectively, when applied only to nonimmunocompromised patients. In contrast, when using cutoff values of ≥2 and ≥3 for CURB-65, the DORs were 3.35 (2.26-4.97) and 2.65 (2.05-3.43), respectively, and the AUCs were 0.65 (0.61-0.69) and 0.66 (0.62-0.70), respectively. Conversely, the AUCs for ≥2 and ≥3 were 0.65 (0.61-0.69) and 0.68 (0.64-0.72), respectively, when applied only to nonimmunocompromised patients. Conclusions: The PORT score and CURB-65 do not have substantial power compared with the tools for CAP patients, although the PORT score is more useful than CURB-65 for predicting mortality in HCAP patients. According to our results, however, these tools, especially the PORT score, can be more useful when limited to nonimmunocompromised patients.
systematic-review	RES479089	"Risk Factors for Community-Acquired Pneumonia in Adults: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies Risk Factors for Community-Acquired Pneumonia in Adults: A Systematic Review of Observational Studies We performed a systematic review of the literature to establish conclusive evidence of risk factors for community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Observational studies (cross-sectional, case-control, and cohort studies) the primary outcome of which was to assess risk factors for CAP in both hospitalized and ambulatory adult patients with radiologically confirmed pneumonia were selected. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale specific for cohort and case-control designs was used for quality assessment. Twenty-nine studies (20 case-control, 8 cohort, and 1 cross-sectional) were selected, with 44.8% of them focused on elderly subjects ≥65 years of age and 34.5% on mixed populations (participants' age &gt;14 years). The median quality score was 7.44 (range 5-9). Age, smoking, environmental exposures, malnutrition, previous CAP, chronic bronchitis/chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, functional impairment, poor dental health, immunosuppressive therapy, oral steroids, and treatment with gastric acid-suppressive drugs were definitive risk factors for CAP. Some of these factors are modifiable. Regarding other factors (e.g., gender, overweight, alcohol use, recent respiratory tract infections, pneumococcal and influenza vaccination, inhalation therapy, swallowing disorders, renal and liver dysfunction, diabetes, and cancer) no definitive conclusion could be established. Prompt assessment and correction of modifiable risk factors could reduce morbidity and mortality among adult CAP patients, particularly among the elderly."
case-report	RES491934	The Hospital and Patient Burden of Indwelling Pleural Catheters: A Retrospective Case Series of 210 Indwelling Pleural Catheter Insertions The Hospital and Patient Burden of Indwelling Pleural Catheters: A Retrospective Case Series of 210 Indwelling Pleural Catheter Insertions Background: Indwelling pleural catheters (IPC) offer an alternative to talc pleurodesis in recurrent effusion, especially in patients wishing to avoid hospitalization. Two randomized trials have demonstrated reduced time in hospital using IPCs versus talc pleurodesis in malignant pleural effusion (MPE). However, the impact of IPCs on hospital services and patients has not been well studied. Objectives: To analyze long-term outcomes of IPCs and understand the hospital burden in terms of requirement for hospital visits and contacts with healthcare, while the IPC was in situ. Methods: IPC insertions in a tertiary pleural center were analyzed retrospectively. Reviews of patients with IPCs in situ considered “additional” to routine clinical follow-up were defined pre-hoc. Results: A total of 202 cases were analyzed: 89.6% MPE group (n = 181) and 10.4% non-MPE group (n = 21). There were a median 3.0 (interquartile range [IQR] 3) and 2.0 (IQR 2) ipsilateral pleural procedures prior to each IPC insertion in non-MPE and MPE groups, respectively (p = 0.26), and a mean 1.3 (SD 1.7) planned IPC-related outpatient follow-up visits per patient. There were 2 (9.5%) and 14 (7.7%) IPC-related infections in non-MPE and MPE groups, respectively. Four (19.0%) and 44 (24.3%) patients required additional IPC-related reviews in non-MPE and MPE groups, respectively (p = 0.6), and these occurred within 250 days post IPC insertion. Conclusions: Although IPCs decrease initial length of hospital stay compared to talc pleurodesis via chest drain, IPCs are associated with significant hospital-visit burden, in addition to planned visits and regular home IPC drainages. IPC-using services need to be prepared for this additional work to run an IPC service effectively.
case-report	RES492578	Endoscopic Ultrasound with Bronchoscope-Guided Fine Needle Aspiration for the Diagnosis of Paraesophageally Located Lung Lesions Endoscopic Ultrasound with Bronchoscope-Guided Fine Needle Aspiration for the Diagnosis of Paraesophageally Located Lung Lesions Background: Diagnosing centrally located lung tumors without endobronchial abnormalities and not located near the major airways is a diagnostic challenge. Tumors near or adjacent to the esophagus can be aspirated and detected with esophageal ultrasound (EUS) using gastrointestinal endoscopes. Objective: To assess the feasibility and diagnostic yield of endoscopic ultrasound with bronchoscope-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-B-FNA) in paraesophageally located lung tumors and its added value to bronchoscopy and endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS). Methods: Retrospective, multicenter international study (from January 1, 2015 until January 1, 2018) of patients with suspected lung cancer, undergoing bronchoscopy, EBUS, and endoscopic ultrasound bronchoscopy (EUS-B) in one session by a single operator (pulmonologist), in whom the primary lung tumor was detected and aspirated by EUS-B. In the absence of malignancy following endoscopy, transthoracic ultrasound needle aspiration, clinical and radiological follow-up of at least 6 months was performed. The yield and sensitivity of EUS-B-FNA and its added value to bronchoscopy and EBUS was assessed. Results: 58 patients were identified with the following diagnosis: non-small-cell lung cancer (n = 43), small-cell lung cancer (n = 6), mesothelioma (n = 2), metastasis (n = 1), nonmalignant (n = 6). The yield and sensitivity of EUS-B-FNA for detecting lung cancer was 90%. In 26 patients (45%), the intrapulmonary tumor was exclusively detected by EUS-B. Adding EUS-B to conventional bronchoscopy and EBUS increased the diagnostic yield for diagnosing lung cancer in para­esophageally located lung tumors from 51 to 91%. No EUS-B-related complications were observed. Conclusion: EUS-B-FNA is a feasible and safe technique for diagnosing centrally located intrapulmonary tumors that are located near or adjacent to the esophagus. EUS-B should be considered in the same endoscopy session following nondiagnostic bronchoscopy and EBUS.
case-report	RES493757	Closure of Bronchopleural Fistula with Mesenchymal Stem Cells: Case Report and Brief Literature Review Closure of Bronchopleural Fistula with Mesenchymal Stem Cells: Case Report and Brief Literature Review Closure of bronchopleural fistula remains a difficult challenge for clinicians. Although several therapeutic approaches have been proposed, the clinical results are commonly unsatisfactory. Previous reports have indicated that autologous mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are useful for aiding treatment of bronchopleural fistula. We report here the use of umbilical cord MSCs to effect the successful closure of a bronchopleural fistula (5 mm) in a 33-year-old woman 6 months after a lobectomy. A review of the relevant literature is included. The use of MSCs may be a promising therapeutic method for the closure of bronchopleural fistula. Randomized controlled trials with larger samples are required.
research-article	RES493758	"Developing and Gathering Validity Evidence for a Simulation-Based Test of Competencies in Lung Ultrasound Developing and Gathering Validity Evidence for a Simulation-Based Test of Competencies in Lung Ultrasound Background: Clinical lung ultrasound (LUS) is a fast bedside diagnostic tool which can assist clinicians in decisions regarding the treatment and monitoring of patients with respiratory symptoms. LUS training and education differ widely, and is often done in a clinical setting, with potential risks for patients if decisions are made based on the wrong interpretations. No clear guidelines or recommendations for objective and standardized assessment of LUS skills exist, and those that do are often based on a fixed time-frame or an arbitrary number of examinations performed; this does not ensure adequate competencies. Objectives: The study aimed to develop and gather validity evidence for a practical, simulation-based test in LUS. Methods: Nine cases were developed in collaboration with 3D Systems Healthcare, Littleton, CO, USA, representing the most common diagnosis and sonographic findings in patients with respiratory symptoms. Thirty-six participants with different levels of competence in LUS, completed the test. The participants were divided into groups, i.e., novices, intermediates, and experienced, according to their experience with LUS, the number of examinations they had performed, and any research they had conducted. Their answers were used for item analyses. Results: The intraclass correlation coefficient, Cronbachs’ α, was 0.69 summarized, and there was a statistically significant difference (p &"
research-article	RES494296	The Ratio Serum Creatinine/Serum Cystatin C (a Surrogate Marker of Muscle Mass) as a Predictor of Hospitalization in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Outpatients The Ratio Serum Creatinine/Serum Cystatin C (a Surrogate Marker of Muscle Mass) as a Predictor of Hospitalization in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Outpatients Background: In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), low muscle mass has been associated with several clinical outcomes such as low exercise capacity, hospital admission, and mortality. The Sarcopenia Index (SI) is a novel way to estimate muscle mass based on the ratio of serum creatinine (produced exclusively by muscle)/cystatin C (produced by all nucleated body cells). Objectives: This study aims to assess the SI in stable COPD outpatients, as compared with a healthy control group, to quantify its relationship with several important clinical features in COPD, and to study its potential usefulness to predict COPD exacerbations and hospital admissions. Methods: The SI was calculated in 18 healthy control subjects and 65 stable COPD outpatients were included in the study. Patients were prospectively followed for 1 year after being enrolled in the study. Results: COPD patients had a lower SI than controls, that is lower muscle mass. Furthermore, patients with a modified Medical Research Council dyspnea score ≥2, patients with a COPD Assessment Test score ≥10, and patients with a high risk of exacerbation had lower levels of SI compared with patients without these characteristics. SI correlated with FEV1 (r = 0.491, p &
meta-analysis	SAD433473	Network Meta-Analysis of Onychomycosis Treatments Network Meta-Analysis of Onychomycosis Treatments Background: Many onychomycosis treatments have not been directly compared in head-to-head clinical trials. Objective: To determine the relative efficacy of onychomycosis treatments using network meta-analysis (NMA). Methods: We conducted a systematic review and NMA of mycological cure rates. Results: Nineteen trials were included in the network. Terbinafine 250 mg was significantly superior to all treatments except itraconazole 400 mg pulse therapy. The itraconazole 400 mg pulse regimen was significantly superior to all topicals except efinaconazole 10% nail solution. Itraconazole 200 mg was significantly superior to all topical treatments, while fluconazole 150-450 mg, efinaconazole 10% nail solution, tavaborole 5% nail solution, ciclopirox nail lacquer 8%, terbinafine nail solution, and amorolfine 5% nail lacquer were significantly superior to placebo. Conclusions: Newly developed topicals have improved the odds ratios (ORs) of mycological cure, yet these ORs were not significantly greater than preexisting topical treatments. Further experience with these agents will reveal their clinical significance, and head-to-head trials are warranted.
case-report	SAD447493	"A Case of Frontal Fibrosing Alopecia in a Patient with Primary Biliary Cirrhosis and Polymyalgia Rheumatica A Case of Frontal Fibrosing Alopecia in a Patient with Primary Biliary Cirrhosis and Polymyalgia Rheumatica Frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is a form of scarring hair loss that is characterized by hair follicle destruction in a fronto-temporo-parietal distribution. Its etiology is unknown; however, most authors presently favor an immune pathogenesis. Associated autoimmune connective tissue diseases have been reported in patients with FFA. We present a case of FFA in a woman with primary biliary cirrhosis and polymyalgia rheumatica, suggesting an association between these clinical entities and supporting a potential autoimmune etiology of FFA."
case-report	SAD448105	Onychopapilloma Presenting as Leukonychia: Case Report and Review of the Literature Onychopapilloma Presenting as Leukonychia: Case Report and Review of the Literature Onychopapilloma is a benign tumor of the nail bed and distal matrix and is the most common cause of localized longitudinal erythronychia. Here, we describe a case of onychopapilloma presenting as longitudinal leukonychia of the left 4th fingernail in a 71-year-old female. To date, this is only the ninth described case of onychopapilloma presenting as longitudinal leukonychia. We review the literature on the reported cases and provide evidence that longitudinal leukonychia as the presenting sign for onychopapilloma is becoming increasingly recognized in clinical practice.
case-report	SAD449006	An Overlap of Secondary Cutis Verticis Gyrata, Folliculitis Decalvans, Folliculitis Keloidalis Nuchae and the Use of Dreadlocks: The Role of Inflammation due to Traction An Overlap of Secondary Cutis Verticis Gyrata, Folliculitis Decalvans, Folliculitis Keloidalis Nuchae and the Use of Dreadlocks: The Role of Inflammation due to Traction We report a 29-year-old black male with cutis verticis gyrata, folliculitis decalvans and folliculitis keloidalis nuchae confirmed by biopsy. He had been using dreadlocks for 5 years before the appearance of the lesions. An activation of the different fibroblast growth factor members may explain the development of hyperproliferation of collagen, fibrosis and keloid lesions. We suggest a hypothesis of a common pathogenesis for the three conditions in a genetically predisposed patient. Inflammation and traction caused by the dreadlocks can act as a possible trigger factor.
case-report	SAD449064	"Relationship between Human Papilloma Virus and Subungual Keratoacanthoma: Two Case Reports and the Outcomes of Surgical Treatment Relationship between Human Papilloma Virus and Subungual Keratoacanthoma: Two Case Reports and the Outcomes of Surgical Treatment Subungual keratoacanthoma (SUKA) is a rare form of keratoacanthoma, with the majority of the lesions appearing as rapidly growing, painful hyperkeratotic masses located under the distal nail plate of the thumb. In some cases, SUKA causes damage to the underlying bone. The first case presented here was treated by surgical excision alone, and human papilloma virus (HPV) type 6 was detected in the tissue samples. The second case was treated by surgical excision plus curettage; however, HPV was not detected, and tumor cells were not found in the curettage material. There was near complete improvement in both the clinical appearance and the distal phalanx destruction, with no recurrence at the final follow-up in either patient (30 and 14 months, respectively). Overall, simple excision alone or in combination with curettage seemed to be sufficient in the treatment of SUKA; however, the etiopathogenetic role of HPV in SUKA remains controversial, as in its classical form."
case-report	SAD449418	Periungual Lesion due to Secondary Syphilis Periungual Lesion due to Secondary Syphilis Several countries experience a new epidemic of syphilis, mainly due to the changes in risk behaviors. Dermatologists play an important role in the diagnosis, since cutaneous manifestations are frequent during disease progression. We report a rare case of secondary syphilis with periungual involvement. Syphilis, especially in the secondary form, may present with different clinical features, affecting different organs, and mimicking many diseases. Although nail apparatus lesions are more common in the primary form of the disease, they may also be present in the secondary and tertiary forms. Therefore, a comprehensive knowledge of the diverse forms of syphilis presentation is important for an early diagnosis and timely treatment.
review-article	SAD453273	"Photodynamic Therapy and Skin Appendage Disorders: A Review Photodynamic Therapy and Skin Appendage Disorders: A Review Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a noninvasive treatment that utilizes light treatment along with application of a photosensitizing agent. In dermatology, PDT is commonly used and approved for the treatment of oncological conditions such as actinic keratosis, Bowen disease and superficial basal cell carcinoma. In the last 2 decades however, PDT has also been used for the treatment of several nonneoplastic dermatological diseases. The present review summarizes published data on PDT application in skin appendage disorders. Our literature review shows that: (a) PDT may be a suitable treatment for acne, folliculitis decalvans, hidradenitis suppurativa, nail diseases, and sebaceous hyperplasia; (b) there is a lack of agreement on PDT features (type, concentrations and incubation period of used substances, number and frequency of PDT sessions, optimal parameters of light sources, and patient characteristics [e.g., failure to previous treatments, disease severity, body surface area involved, etc.] which should guide PDT use in these diseases); (c) further research is needed to establish international guidelines helping dermatologists to choose PDT for the right patient at the right time."
systematic-review	SAD469666	Patient-Reported Outcomes in Onychomycosis: A Review of Psychometrically Evaluated Instruments in Assessing Treatment Effectiveness Patient-Reported Outcomes in Onychomycosis: A Review of Psychometrically Evaluated Instruments in Assessing Treatment Effectiveness Purpose: Onychomycosis is the most common nail disorder and causes morbidity and impaired quality of life (QOL). Patient-reported outcomes (PRO) are patients' assessment of their health status or treatment response. PROs help assess what is most bothersome to patients to identify targets for intervention. We sought to review the PRO instruments currently used to assess QOL and treatment response in onychomycosis patients. Procedures: A systematic review was performed by searching PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, and PsycINFO databases through December 31, 2016, to identify all English language literature on onychomycosis, PRO, and QOL. Results: Currently, 5 validated PRO instruments exist specifically for onychomycosis. Oral therapies were most extensively studied using PRO instruments. QOL data generally correlated with clinical change, although patients sometimes reported improvement without any clinically significant nail clearance. The only psychometrically validated PRO instrument used to evaluate treatment response is the OnyCOE-t™. Conclusions: Clinicians may underestimate the impact of onychomycosis on patients. With recent initiatives from health-care management organizations to improve patient experience and the recent approval of expensive and nonsuperior topical antifungal medications, PROs will be increasingly important in onychomycosis to assess patient priorities and optimize treatment. Future research should evaluate these instruments in special populations and fingernail disease.
review-article	SAD479035	Value of Eponyms in Dermato-Trichological Nomenclature Value of Eponyms in Dermato-Trichological Nomenclature Traditionally, syndromes have been named after the physician who originally identified the condition. These are referred to as eponymous syndromes. Nevertheless, the term eponym is to be regarded in a broader sense, since - by definition - an eponym is a person, place, or thing after whom or which something is named. Accordingly, some eponymous syndromes do not refer to the physician who originally reported the condition, but alternatively to the indicator patient, a geographic location, or a historical, literary, or mythological context. The recent past has seen a shift towards naming conditions descriptively by symptoms rather than eponymously. When the syndrome name is formed as an abbreviation from the initial letters of the symptoms, it is referred to as an acronym. The use of acronyms has become particularly popular and is often taught as mnemonic device or used as mental checklist. However, the use of eponyms confers historical, literary, and cultural information that reaches beyond and therefore conveys the dignity of a broader educational background and understanding.
systematic-review	SAD484354	Scalp Itch: A Systematic Review Scalp Itch: A Systematic Review Scalp itch is a frequent complaint in the dermatological setting. It is common for the dermatologist to encounter patients with no evident cause of scalp pruritus, making it a distressing situation for both the clinician and the patient. The aim of this paper is to propose a systematic approach to scalp itch, which classifies scalp pruritus into two types: (1) with or (2) without dermatological lesions, and presence or absence of hair loss. Also, it is important to think first about the most common causes and then rule out other, less common etiologies. The acronym SCALLP and the five steps for scalp evaluation (listen, look, touch, magnify, and sample) are useful tools to keep in mind for an assertive approach in these patients.
case-report	SAD493534	Lichen Nitidus Associated with Onychodystrophy and Response to Therapy: Report of Two Cases Lichen Nitidus Associated with Onychodystrophy and Response to Therapy: Report of Two Cases Lichen nitidus (LN) is a chronic inflammatory condition characterised by multiple asymptomatic shiny, flat-topped, pale to skin-coloured tiny papules. LN occurs most often in children and young adults with limbs, abdomen, chest, and penile shaft as common sites of predilection. Nail involvement is rare and includes irregular longitudinal grooving and ridging of the nail plate. We report two cases of generalised LN with nail dystrophy in 8- and 12-year-old boys along with the treatment response and review the pertinent literature.
case-report	SAD493649	Spontaneous Quick Resolution of Uncombable Hair Syndrome-Like Disease Spontaneous Quick Resolution of Uncombable Hair Syndrome-Like Disease Uncombable hair syndrome (UHS) is a unique hair shaft disease characterized by frizzy, straw-colored hair, which is resistant to combing and brushing. Familial cases have been described, and recently mutations in genes related to trichohyalin production have been reported as the cause for this condition. UHS usually manifests during early childhood, and gradually resolves at puberty. Herein, we report on a 2-year-old boy whose hair changed to a UHS-like phenotype “overnight” with no apparent trigger. The condition resolved abruptly after 9 months. Genetic analysis revealed a heterozygous variant in the PLCD1 gene, which has been connected to hair development. This case raises the possibility that a genetic cause can lead to a temporary change in hair shaft appearance, possibly after exposure to a yet unknown external trigger.
case-report	SAD495121	Isolated Nail Dystrophy: An Unlikely Presentation of Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Isolated Nail Dystrophy: An Unlikely Presentation of Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Metastasis of any malignancy to the nail unit is uncommon, and only a handful of cases of subungual renal cell carcinoma (RCC) metastasis have been reported. We describe a case of isolated nail dystrophy that proved to be the presenting symptom of a previously undetected RCC. In a patient presenting with a subungual lesion, tumor metastasis to the nail unit should be included in the clinical differential diagnosis in both oncology patients and previously cancer-free individuals, as a subungual metastasis may be the first indication of a clinically silent visceral malignancy.
review-article	SFN303524	A Target-Specific Electrode and Lead Design for Internal Globus Pallidus Deep Brain Stimulation A Target-Specific Electrode and Lead Design for Internal Globus Pallidus Deep Brain Stimulation In nearly all deep brain stimulation (DBS) applications, the same quadripolar electrode design is used for different anatomical targets even if shape and volume differences exist between nuclei. Taking into account the electrode location within the internal globus pallidus (GPi) and the size of the GPi, 2 electrodes were designed in order to improve the therapeutic benefit, to minimize side effects from DBS and to obtain a more homogeneous electric field distribution. The electrodes were evaluated numerically by using a stereotactic model measuring the correlation between the electric field and the GPi. The model was applied to 26 dystonodyskinetic patients who underwent surgery for a bilateral lead implantation into the posteroventral part of the GPi. The designed electrodes produced a more homogeneous distribution of the electric field than the quadripolar electrode.
systematic-review	SFN314354	"Vegetative State and Minimally Conscious State: A Review of the Therapeutic Interventions Vegetative State and Minimally Conscious State: A Review of the Therapeutic Interventions Background/Aims: The purpose of the present article is a systematic review of the proposed medical or surgical treatments in patients in chronic vegetative state (VS) or minimally conscious state (MCS), as well as of their mechanisms of action and limitations. Methods: For this review, we have agreed to include patients in VS or MCS having persisted for over 6 months in posttraumatic cases, and over 3 months in nontraumatic cases, before the time of intervention. Searches were independently conducted by 2 investigators between May 2009 and September 2009 in the following databases: Medline, Web of Science and the Cochrane Library. The electronic search was complemented by cross-checking the references of all relevant articles. Overall, 16 papers were eligible for this systematic review. Results: According to the 16 eligible studies, medical management by dopaminergic agents (levodopa, amantadine), zolpidem and median nerve stimulation, or surgical management by deep brain stimulation, extradural cortical stimulation, spinal cord stimulation and intrathecal baclofen have shown to improve the level of consciousness in certain cases. Conclusion: The treatments proposed for disorders of consciousness have not yet gained the level of ‘evidence-based treatments’; moreover, the studies to date have led to inconclusiveness. The published therapeutic responses must be substantiated by further clinical studies of sound methodology."
research-article	SFN345493	"Chronic Evaluation of a Clinical System for Deep Brain Stimulation and Recording of Neural Network Activity Chronic Evaluation of a Clinical System for Deep Brain Stimulation and Recording of Neural Network Activity Background/Aims: In conjunction with therapeutic stimulation, next-generation deep brain stimulation (DBS) devices may offer the ability to record and analyze neural signals, providing for unprecedented insight into DBS effects on neural networks. This work was conducted to evaluate an implantable, clinical-grade system that permits concurrent stimulation and recording using a large animal (ovine) model recently developed to study DBS for epilepsy. Methods: Following anesthesia and 1.5-tesla MRI acquisition, unilateral anterior thalamic and hippocampal DBS leads were implanted (n = 3) using a frameless stereotactic system. Chronic, awake recordings of evoked potentials (EPs) and local field potentials were collected with the implanted device and analyzed off-line. Results: Hippocampal EPs were stable over long-term (&gt;1 year) recording and consistent in morphology and latency with prior acute results. Thalamic and hippocampal DBS produced both excitatory and inhibitory network effects that were stimulation site and parameter dependent. Free roaming recordings illustrated periods of highly correlated activity between these two structures within the circuit of Papez. Conclusions: These results provide further insight into mechanisms of DBS therapy for epilepsy and an encouraging demonstration of the capabilities of this new technology, which in the future, may afford unique opportunities to study human brain function and neuromodulation mechanism of action."
research-article	SFN345504	"Surgical Outcomes of Microsurgical Selective Peripheral Neurotomy for Intractable Limb Spasticity Surgical Outcomes of Microsurgical Selective Peripheral Neurotomy for Intractable Limb Spasticity Background: The authors frequently employed selective peripheral neurotomy (SPN) as the primary treatment of severe intractable focal and multifocal spastic hypertonia. We occasionally operated SPN in diffuse spastic disorders. Objective: To study surgical outcome of SPN in terms of severity of spasticity and functional condition. Methods: Patients harboring refractory harmful spasticity of various origins were enrolled into the present study. They were clinically evaluated by using the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), passive range of motion (PROM) and functional status. These variables were compared between pre- and postsurgery by using the paired t test and the Wilcoxon signed-rank matched-pairs test. Results: One hundred and forty-one SPNs were accomplished in 33 patients. Overall mean pre- and postoperative MAS and PROM were 3.0 and 0.7 (p &lt; 0.001) and 78.3 and 102.3° (p &lt; 0.001), respectively. Analysis of individual SPN subgroups also demonstrated statistically significant improvement of both parameters. Furthermore, we found significant gait improvement among 10 ambulatory subjects. Nine bed-bound cases attained significant enhancement of sitting competency and ambulatory condition. Conclusion: SPN is an efficacious neurosurgical intervention in the treatment of spasticity. It is apparently beneficial in the reduction of spasticity, amelioration of functional status, facilitation of patient care and prevention of long-term musculoskeletal sequelae."
systematic-review	SFN348271	"Neuromodulation of Vegetative State through Spinal Cord Stimulation: Where Are We Now and Where Are We Going? Neuromodulation of Vegetative State through Spinal Cord Stimulation: Where Are We Now and Where Are We Going? Background: Vegetative state (VS) is a complex condition that represents a challenging frontier for medicine and neuroscience research. Nowadays there is no scientifically validated treatment for VS patients, and their chronic long-term assistance is very demanding for healthcare systems worldwide. Objectives: The present paper is a systematic review of the role of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) as a treatment of patients with VS. Methods: Published literature on this topic was analyzed systematically. Clinical and epidemiological characteristics of VS, present therapeutic options and social costs of VS were also evaluated. Results: Only 10 papers have been published since 1988, and overall 308 VS patients have been treated with SCS worldwide; 51.6% displayed a clinical improvement and an amelioration of the environmental interaction. These effects are probably mediated by the stimulation of the reticular formation-thalamus-cortex pathway and by cerebral blood flow augmentation induced by SCS. Conclusions: The experience on this topic is still very limited, and on this basis it is still hard to make any rigorous assessment. However, the most recent experiments represent significant progress in the research on this topic and display SCS as a possible therapeutic tool in the treatment of VS."
research-article	SFN367665	"The Relation between Catheter Occlusion and Backflow during Intraparenchymal Cerebral Infusions The Relation between Catheter Occlusion and Backflow during Intraparenchymal Cerebral Infusions Background/Aims: The distribution of infusate into the brain by convection-enhanced delivery can be affected by backflow along the catheter shaft. This work assesses the following: (1) whether tissue coring and occlusion of the catheter lumen occurs when an open end-port catheter is inserted, (2) whether there is a relationship between intracatheter pressure and backflow, and (3) whether catheter occlusion increases backflow. Methods: Freshly excised monkey brains were used to assess tissue coring and its correlation with the behavior of the line pressure. In vivo infusions of gadolinium solution into monkey putamen at 1 μl/min were conducted with and without a stylet during insertion. The effect of flow during insertion was evaluated in vivo in the pig thalamus. MRI and line pressure were continuously monitored during in vivo infusions. Results: Ex vivo testing showed that open end-port insertions always cored tissue (which temporarily plugs the catheter tip) and increased pressure followed by a rapid fall after its expulsion. Catheter insertion with a stylet in place prevented coring but not flow insertion; neither affected backflow. Conclusion: Open end-port catheters occlude during insertion, which can be prevented by temporarily closing the port with a stylet but not by infusing while inserting. Backflow was not completely prevented by any insertion method."
research-article	SFN368438	Effects of Cerebellothalamic Tractotomy on Cognitive and Emotional Functioning in Essential Tremor: A Preliminary Study in 5 Essential Tremor Patients Effects of Cerebellothalamic Tractotomy on Cognitive and Emotional Functioning in Essential Tremor: A Preliminary Study in 5 Essential Tremor Patients Background: Subthalamic stereotactic interventions have recently caught renewed interest as a treatment for essential tremor (ET). However, it is not clear whether these interventions are associated with neurocognitive, mood or personality changes. Objective: To investigate neurocognition, neuropsychiatric functions and personality variables in patients with ET and to explore the neurocognitive and neuropsychiatric effects of cerebellothalamic tractotomy (CTT), a form of subthalamotomy. Methods: In our study, we investigated cognitive functions, frontal functions, mood and personality variables in 5 patients with intractable ET. Patients were tested before and 3 months after surgery using neuropsychological tests, clinical scales for depression, anxiety, anger regulation and a personality test. Results: Before surgery, ET patients showed normal neurocognitive function, a slightly elevated frontal lobe score in the dimensions mental control and memory, without being indicative of a frontal lesion, and no elevated depression or anxiety scores compared to norm values. After surgery, there was no change in neurocognitive function and no increase in depression or anxiety scores. Conclusion: In this exploratory study on 5 ET patients, CTT was not associated with alterations of mood or neurocognitive functions.
research-article	SFN368443	"Constant Current versus Constant Voltage Subthalamic Nucleus Deep Brain Stimulation in Parkinson's Disease Constant Current versus Constant Voltage Subthalamic Nucleus Deep Brain Stimulation in Parkinson's Disease Background: Subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Motor efficacy and safety have been established for constant voltage (CV) devices and more recently for constant current (CC) devices. CC devices adjust output voltage to provide CC stimulation irrespective of impedance fluctuation, while the current applied by CV stimulation depends on the impedance that may change over time. No study has directly compared the clinical effects of these two stimulation modalities. Objective: To compare the safety and clinical impact of CC STN DBS to CV STN DBS in patients with advanced PD 2 years after surgery. Methods: Patients were eligible for inclusion if they had undergone STN DBS surgery for idiopathic PD, had been implanted with a Medtronic Activa PC and if their stimulation program and medication had been stable for at least 1 year. This single-center trial was designed as a double-blind, randomized, prospective study with crossover after 2 weeks. Motor equivalence of the 2 modalities was confirmed utilizing part III of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). PD diaries and multiple subjective and objective evaluations of quality of life, depression, cognition and emotional processing were evaluated on both CV and on CC stimulation. Analysis using the paired t test with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons was performed to identify any significant difference between the stimulation modalities. Results: 8 patients were recruited (6 men, 2 women); 1 patient did not complete the study. The average age at surgery was 56.7 years (range 47-63). Disease duration at the time of surgery was 7.5 years (range 3-12). Patients were recruited 23.8 months (range 22.5-24) after surgery. At the postoperative study baseline, this patient group showed an average motor improvement of 69% (range 51-97) as measured by the change in UPDRS part III with stimulation alone. Levodopa equivalent medication was reduced on average by 67% (range 15-88). Patients were poorly compliant with PD diaries, and these did not yield useful information. The minor deterioration in quality-of-life scores (Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39, Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire) with CC stimulation were not statistically significant. Two measures of depression (Hamilton Rating Scale D17, Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology - Self-Report) showed a nonsignificant lower score (less depression) with CC stimulation, but a third (Beck Depression Inventory) showed equivalence. Cognitive testing (Mini Mental State Examination) and emotional processing (Montreal Affective Voices) were equivalent for CC and CV. Conclusion: CC STN DBS is safe. For equivalent motor efficacy, no significant difference could be identified between CC and CV stimulation for nonmotor evaluations in PD patients 2 years after surgery."
research-article	SFN369354	Using the Accelerometers Integrated in Smartphones to Evaluate Essential Tremor Using the Accelerometers Integrated in Smartphones to Evaluate Essential Tremor Background/Aims: Evaluation of tremor constitutes a crucial step from the diagnosis to the initial treatment and follow-up of patients with essential tremor. The severity of tremor can be evaluated using clinical rating scales, accelerometry, or electrophysiology. Clinical scores are subjectively given, may be affected by intra- and interevaluator variations due to different experience, delays between consultations, and subtle changes in tremor severity. Existing medical devices are not routinely used: they are expensive, time-consuming, not easily accessible. We aimed at showing that a smartphone application using the accelerometers embedded in smartphones is effective for quantifying the tremor of patients presenting with essential tremor. Methods: We developed a free iPhone/iPod application, Itremor, and evaluated different parameters on 8 patients receiving deep brain stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus of the thalamus: average and maximum accelerations, time above 1 g of acceleration, peak frequency, typical magnitude of tremor, for postural and action tremors, on and off stimulation. Results: We demonstrated good correlations between the parameters measured with Itremor and clinical score in all conditions. Itremor evaluation enabled higher discriminatory power and degree of reproducibility than clinical scores. Conclusion: Itremor can be used for routine objective evaluation of essential tremor, and may facilitate adjustment of the treatment.
research-article	SFN369355	"The Influence of Positioning and Muscle Activity on Motor Threshold during Motor Cortex Stimulation Programming The Influence of Positioning and Muscle Activity on Motor Threshold during Motor Cortex Stimulation Programming Background: Stimulation parameters are crucial for the efficacy and safety of motor cortex stimulation (MCS). Motor threshold (MT) can be defined as the lowest voltage that produces motor contraction. The final stimulation parameters are always a smaller percentage of MT in order to avoid seizures. We determined how patient position and activity affect MT. Methods: Prospective MT measurements were made while patients were either lying down or sitting up, and in a resting state or while actively contracting the target muscle. Paired 1-tailed t tests were performed to assess for statistically significant differences between MT measurements made under the 4 different combinations of position and activity. Results: The MT was lower when the target muscle was being actively contracted compared to resting in both supine and upright positions (both p &lt; 0.001). The MT was also lower when upright compared to supine in both resting and active states of muscle contraction (both p &lt; 0.001). The mean difference between supine resting and upright active states is 0.79 V. Conclusion: When selecting final stimulation parameters for MCS, clinicians should be aware that the lowest MT is elicited while patients are seated upright and actively contracting the target muscle. Using this method of determining the MT when calculating the final stimulation parameters could reduce the chance of MCS-induced seizures."
case-report	SFN439115	"Neurosurgical Treatments for Patients with Chronic, Treatment-Refractory Depression: A Retrospective, Consecutive, Case Series Comparison of Anterior Capsulotomy, Anterior Cingulotomy and Vagus Nerve Stimulation Neurosurgical Treatments for Patients with Chronic, Treatment-Refractory Depression: A Retrospective, Consecutive, Case Series Comparison of Anterior Capsulotomy, Anterior Cingulotomy and Vagus Nerve Stimulation Background: The evidence base to guide therapeutic choices for patients with chronic and treatment-refractory depression (TRD) remains weak. There is limited comparative information available to guide the choice of intervention for patients with the most severe and disabling forms of illness. Objectives: The aim of this work was to describe the 12-month clinical outcomes of patients with chronic TRD treated with anterior capsulotomy (ACAPS; n = 5), anterior cingulotomy (ACING; n = 5) or vagus nerve stimulation (VNS; n = 5). Methods: We performed a retrospective, consecutive, case series comparison. Results: With clinical response defined as a ≥50% reduction from the baseline MADRS score, response rates were 40% for ACAPS, 60% for ACING and 20% for VNS. Adverse effects from all three procedures were relatively mild, consistent with previous reports and, in most cases, transient. Adverse effects from VNS were related to active stimulation, and were modifiable and diminished in severity over time. There were no deaths. Conclusions: Although based on a small sample, our data represent a unique comparison of ACAPS, ACING and VNS for chronic TRD. The three cohorts were broadly equivalent in terms of baseline clinical characteristics, indices of chronicity, illness severity and estimates of previous failed treatments. ACING and ACAPS, but not VNS, were associated with favourable response rates at 12 months."
meta-analysis	SFN446247	"A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Studies Examining the Use of Brain Laser Interstitial Thermal Therapy versus Craniotomy for the Treatment of High-Grade Tumors in or near Areas of Eloquence: An Examination of the Extent of Resection and Major Complication Rates Associated with Each Type of Surgery A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Studies Examining the Use of Brain Laser Interstitial Thermal Therapy versus Craniotomy for the Treatment of High-Grade Tumors in or near Areas of Eloquence: An Examination of the Extent of Resection and Major Complication Rates Associated with Each Type of Surgery Background: The extent of resection (EOR) of high-grade gliomas (WHO grade III or IV) in or near areas of eloquence is associated with overall patient survival, but with higher major neurocognitive complications. Methods: A systematic review and meta-analysis was undertaken of the peer-reviewed literature in order to identify studies which examined EOR or extent of ablation (EOA) and major complications (defined as neurocognitive or functional complications which last &gt;3 months duration after surgery) associated with either brain laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) or open craniotomy in high-grade tumors in or near areas of eloquence. Results: Eight studies on brain LITT (n = 79 patients) and 12 craniotomy studies (n = 1,036 patients) were identified which examined either/both EOR/EOA and complications. Meta-analysis demonstrated an EOA/EOR of 85.4 ± 10.6% with brain LITT versus 77.0 ± 40% with craniotomy (mean difference: 8%; 95% CI: 2-15; p = 0.01; inverse variance, random effects model). Meta-analysis of proportions of major complications for each individual therapy demonstrated major complications of 5.7% (95% CI: 1.8-11.6) and 13.8% (95% CI: 10.3-17.9) for LITT and craniotomy, respectively. Conclusion: In patients presenting with high-grade gliomas in or near areas of eloquence, early results demonstrate that brain LITT may be a viable surgical alternative."
systematic-review	SFN446609	Registration Accuracy of CT/MRI Fusion for Localisation of Deep Brain Stimulation Electrode Position: An Imaging Study and Systematic Review Registration Accuracy of CT/MRI Fusion for Localisation of Deep Brain Stimulation Electrode Position: An Imaging Study and Systematic Review Background: Postoperative imaging is essential for verifying electrode location in patients undergoing deep brain stimulation (DBS). MRI offers better visualisation of brain targets, but concerns about adverse events have limited its use. Preoperative stereotactic MRI fused with a postoperative stereotactic CT, demonstrating the electrode position, is now widely used. Objectives: The aims of this study were to: (1) evaluate the accuracy of image registration using Neuroinspire, and (2) undertake a systematic review of the literature on CT/MRI fusion techniques to ascertain the accuracy of other software packages. Methods: Twenty patients who underwent bilateral subthalamic nucleus DBS for Parkinson's disease were selected. The postoperative CT was registered and fused with the preoperative MRI using Neuroinspire. The position of each electrode tip was determined in stereotactic coordinates both in the (unfused) postoperative CT and the fused CT/MRI. The difference in tip position was used to evaluate the registration accuracy. Results: The mean error ± SD of CT/MRI fusion using Neuroinspire was 0.25 ± 0.15, 0.33 ± 0.26 and 0.46 ± 0.55 mm in lateral, anteroposterior and vertical axes. A systematic review suggested that CT/MRI registration with Neuroinspire is more accurate than that achieved with other tested CT/MRI fusion algorithms. Conclusion: CT/MRI fusion for localisation of electrode placement offers an accurate, reliable and safe modality for assessing electrode location.
review-article	SFN479526	Deep Brain Stimulation for the Treatment of Dejerine-Roussy Syndrome Deep Brain Stimulation for the Treatment of Dejerine-Roussy Syndrome Background/Aims: Patients who suffer from Dejerine-Roussy syndrome commonly experience severe poststroke hemibody pain which has historically been attributed to thalamic lesions. Despite pharmacological treatment, a significant proportion of the population is resistant to traditional therapy. Deep brain stimulation is often appropriate for the treatment of resistant populations. In this review we aim to summarize the targets that are used to treat Dejerine-Roussy syndrome and provide insight into their clinical efficacy. Methods: In reviewing the literature, we defined stimulation success as achievement of a minimum of 50% pain relief. Results: Contemporary targets for deep brain stimulation are the ventral posterior medial/ventral posterior lateral thalamic nuclei, periaqueductal/periventricular gray matter, the ventral striatum/anterior limb of the internal capsule, left centromedian thalamic nuclei, the nucleus ventrocaudalis parvocellularis internis, and the posterior limb of the internal capsule. Conclusions: Due to technological advancements in deep brain stimulation, its therapeutic effects must be reevaluated. Despite a lack of controlled evidence, deep brain stimulation has been effectively used as a therapeutic in clinical pain management. Further clinical investigation is needed to definitively evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of deep brain stimulation in treating the drug-resistant patient population.
case-report	SFN492058	"Laitinen’s Subgenual Cingulotomy: Anatomical Location and Case Report Laitinen’s Subgenual Cingulotomy: Anatomical Location and Case Report Background: The widespread use of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for movement disorders has renewed the interest in DBS for psychiatric disorders. Lauri Laitinen was a pioneer of stereotactic psychosurgery in the 1950s to 1970s, especially by introducing the subgenual cingulotomy. Our aim here was to verify the anatomical target used by Laitinen, to report on a patient who underwent this procedure, and to review the literature. Materials and Methods: The records of Helsinki University Hospital were searched for psychosurgical cases performed between 1970 and 1974. Alive consenting patients were interviewed and underwent a brain MRI. Results: We found 1 patient alive who underwent subgenual cingulotomy in 1971 for obsessive thoughts, anxiety, and compulsions, diagnosed at that time as “schizophrenia psychoneurotica.” MRI showed bilateral subgenual cingulotomy lesions (254 and 160 mm3, respectively). The coordinates of the center of the lesions in relation to the midcommissural point for the right and left, respectively, were: 7.1 and 7.9 mm lateral; 0.2 mm inferior and 1.4 mm superior, and 33.0 and 33.9 anterior, confirming correct subgenual targeting. The patient reported retrospective satisfactory results. Conclusions: The lesion in this patient was found to be in the expected location, which gives some verification of the correct placement of Laitinen’s subgenus cingulotomy target."
review-article	SFN492230	Prediction of Electrode Contacts for Clinically Effective Deep Brain Stimulation in Essential Tremor Prediction of Electrode Contacts for Clinically Effective Deep Brain Stimulation in Essential Tremor Background/Aim: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established neurosurgical treatment that can be used to alleviate symptoms in essential tremor (ET) and other movement disorders. The aim was to develop a method and software tool for the prediction of effective DBS electrode contacts based on probabilistic stimulation maps (PSMs) in patients with ET treated with caudal zona incerta (cZi) DBS. Methods: A total of 33 patients (37 leads) treated with DBS were evaluated with the Essential Tremor Rating Scale (ETRS) 12 months after surgery. In addition, hand tremor and hand function (ETRS items 5/6 and 11–14) were evaluated for every contact during stimulation with best possible outcome without inducing side effects. Prediction of effective DBS electrode contacts was carried out in a retrospective leave-one-out manner based on PSMs, simulated stimulation fields, and a scoring function. Electrode contacts were ranked according to their likelihood of being included in the clinical setting. Ranked electrode contacts were compared to actual clinical settings. Results: Predictions made by the software tool showed that electrode contacts with rank 1 matched the clinically used contacts in 60% of the cases. Contacts with a rank of 1–2 and 1–3 matched the clinical contacts in 83 and 94% of the cases, respectively. Mean improvement of hand tremor and hand function was 79 ± 21% and 77 ± 22% for the clinically used and the predicted electrode contacts, respectively. Conclusions: Effective electrode contacts can be predicted based on PSMs in patients treated with cZi DBS for ET. Predictions may in the future be used to reduce the number of clinical assessments that are carried out before a satisfying stimulation setting is defined.
systematic-review	SPP346930	Psychological Sweating: A Systematic Review Focused on Aetiology and Cutaneous Response Psychological Sweating: A Systematic Review Focused on Aetiology and Cutaneous Response Psychological sweating in response to emotive stimuli like stress, anxiety and pain occurs over the whole body surface, but is most evident on the palms, soles, face and axilla. This is primarily a consequence of high eccrine sweat gland densities at these body sites. Cholinergic innervation is the primary effector eliciting activation of eccrine sweat glands during periods of acute psychological stress. A dual innervation pathway for eccrine glands (adrenergic and cholinergic) may augment increased sweat output, but this remains to be substantiated. Circulating catecholamines appear not to mediate eccrine gland activity, but may play a role in the activation of apocrine sweat glands. Apocrine sweating is strongly regulated by psychological stimuli and localised to those body sites hosting apocrine glands, with adrenergic peripheral pathways being the primary effector. Accordingly, in the axilla psychological sweating leads to increased sweat output and malodour formation, although this form of sweating at this body site is not observed until puberty.
research-article	SPP348464	In vitro Skin Permeation and Penetration of Nonivamide from Novel Film-Forming Emulsions In vitro Skin Permeation and Penetration of Nonivamide from Novel Film-Forming Emulsions The purpose of this study was to develop film-forming emulsions (FFE) facilitating long-term treatment of chronic pruritus with capsaicinoids. To this end, oil-in-water emulsions, which comprise dispersions of sustained-release polymers, were examined. Such emulsions form a film when applied to the skin and encapsulate the oily drug solution in a dry polymeric matrix. Permeation of the antipruritic drug nonivamide (NVA) is controlled by the matrix. Permeation rates of NVA from FFE and its concentration in the skin are equivalent to those achieved with a conventional semisolid formulation, but can be maintained for a longer period of time. FFE may therefore improve the treatment of chronic pruritus with capsaicinoids by enhancing patient compliance by means of a sustained-release regimen.
research-article	SPP348469	Iontophoresis-Mediated Transdermal Permeation of Peptide Dendrimers across Human Epidermis Iontophoresis-Mediated Transdermal Permeation of Peptide Dendrimers across Human Epidermis Purpose of the Study: The overall aim of the present work was to elucidate the effects of iontophoresis on assisting permeation/deposition of peptide dendrimers across/within human skin. Procedures: A series of peptide dendrimers containing arginine and histidine as terminal acids were synthesized and characterized. These dendrimers were subjected to passive and iontophoretic permeation studies across human epidermis. Results: The synthesized peptide dendrimers were found to be stable in epidermal, dermal and skin extracts up to 6 h. Passive diffusion studies revealed that none of the synthesized peptide dendrimers permeated human epidermis up to 6 h, although minute concentrations of low molecular weight dendrimers were detected in receptor medium at the end of 24 h. Application of iontophoresis significantly increased the permeation of all the tested peptide dendrimers across human skin in a molecular weight-dependent manner compared to simple passive diffusion. Electromigration was found to be the dominant mechanism behind the iontophoretic permeation of peptide dendrimers across human skin. Conclusions: The present study demonstrates that iontophoresis is an effective technique in enhancing the transdermal permeation of peptide dendrimers. Message of the Paper: This study foresees the possibility of applying peptide dendrimers in iontophoretic delivery of drugs and macromolecules across/within the skin.
research-article	SPP348473	"Efficacy of a New Tonic Containing Urea, Lactate, Polidocanol, and Glycyrrhiza inflata Root Extract in the Treatment of a Dry, Itchy, and Subclinically Inflamed Scalp Efficacy of a New Tonic Containing Urea, Lactate, Polidocanol, and Glycyrrhiza inflata Root Extract in the Treatment of a Dry, Itchy, and Subclinically Inflamed Scalp Background/Aims: Dry, itchy and inflamed scalp conditions are common and often associated with diseases such as atopic dermatitis or psoriasis. To improve these symptoms, we investigated the efficacy of a new tonic containing the active ingredients urea, lactate, polidocanol, and Glycyrrhiza inflata root extract, containing licochalcone A. Study Design/Methods: 30 subjects with dry and itchy scalp conditions underwent a randomized half-head study for 4 weeks, applying the leave-on tonic three times a week on one side of the scalp. Tonic effects on skin hydration, itching, lipids, microinflammation, and substantivity of tonic compounds were determined using corneometry, middle-infrared spectroscopy, direct analysis in real-time mass spectrometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Volunteers performed a self-assessment; changes in scalp condition were documented by in vivo microscopy. Results: After tonic treatment, scalp moisture was significantly increased, whereas scalp itching and tautness were significantly reduced. Results also demonstrated a high substantivity of urea and lactate on the scalp, an increase in triglyceride, and a decrease in free fatty acid levels. The amount of total lipids was unchanged. Analyses of scalp wash-ups verified a significant reduction in important pro-inflammatory markers. Conclusion: Due to the actives urea, lactate, polidocanol, and the anti-inflammatory licochalcone A, the new scalp tonic exhibited excellent performance in alleviating scalp dryness, itching, microinflammation, and in normalizing disturbances of scalp lipids."
research-article	SPP443210	Antibacterial Activity of Cold Atmospheric Pressure Argon Plasma against 78 Genetically Different (mecA, luk-P, agr or Capsular Polysaccharide Type) Staphylococcus aureus Strains Antibacterial Activity of Cold Atmospheric Pressure Argon Plasma against 78 Genetically Different (mecA, luk-P, agr or Capsular Polysaccharide Type) Staphylococcus aureus Strains Previous studies on the antimicrobial activity of cold atmospheric pressure argon plasma showed varying effects against mecA+ or mecA-Staphylococcus aureus strains. This observation may have important clinical and epidemiological implications. Here, the antibacterial activity of argon plasma was investigated against 78 genetically different S. aureus strains, stratified by mecA, luk-P, agr1-4, or the cell wall capsule polysaccharide types 5 and 8. kINPen09® served as the plasma source for all experiments. On agar plates, mecA+luk-P-S. aureus strains showed a decreased susceptibility against plasma compared to other S. aureus strains. This study underlines the high complexity of microbial defence against antimicrobial treatment and confirms a previously reported strain-dependent susceptibility of S. aureus to plasma treatment.
research-article	SPP443839	"Serum Vitamin D and Facial Aging: Is There a Link? Serum Vitamin D and Facial Aging: Is There a Link? Background: The vitamin D endocrine system, besides multiple other functions, regulates aging in many tissues, including the skin. It protects the skin against the hazardous effects of many skin age-inducing agents, including ultraviolet radiation. Thus, in the present study we aimed to investigate the relationship between facial skin aging and 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] serum levels in healthy Egyptian adults. Methods: Sixty-one healthy adult subjects were included. Photodamage scores (erythema/telangiectasias, lentigines, hyperpigmentation and coarse wrinkling) were assessed and graded. Serum vitamin D was measured using enzyme immunoassay and subjects were classified as sufficient, insufficient or deficient according to the vitamin level. Results: The mean 25(OH)D serum level was 43.90 nmol/l. A high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency was detected in the studied subjects regardless of their age or gender. Also, vitamin D levels were not correlated with photodamage scores and were not affected by the Fitzpatrick skin phototype, duration of sun exposure per day or the use of sunscreens (p &gt; 0.05 for all). Conclusions: Aging is a complex process that is influenced by many genetic and environmental factors. Facial aging is not correlated with serum vitamin D level, and clinical trials using oral or topical vitamin D to combat aging are better predictors of its effects rather than in vivo studies."
systematic-review	SPP458761	Phototoxicity of Doxycycline: A Systematic Review on Clinical Manifestations, Frequency, Cofactors, and Prevention Phototoxicity of Doxycycline: A Systematic Review on Clinical Manifestations, Frequency, Cofactors, and Prevention Background: One of the most important dermatologic side effects of doxycycline is photosensitivity. As doxycycline is important for malaria prophylaxis and malaria is mainly spread in countries with high sun radiation, special attention should be paid to this adverse effect. While there are many publications on the phototoxicity of tetracyclines in general, only a few exist focusing on doxycycline. The objective of this systematic review was to summarize all available reports on clinical manifestations, influencing factors like UV dose or dose of medication, and the possibilities of prevention by sun protection. Methods: This review is based on a systematic search in PubMed for articles in English and German and a manual search between 1990 and 2015. Results: The number of publications is low. Clinical symptoms vary from light sunburn-like sensation (burning, erythema) to large-area photodermatitis. Also, onycholysis is possible. The triggering UV spectrum seems to consist mainly of UVA1 (340-400 nm), so UV-protective products should be used that cover this range. Travelers to tropical countries taking doxycycline for malaria prophylaxis need thorough medical counseling to avoid possibly severe phototoxic reactions. Conclusion: Evidence base must be improved for giving advice on appropriate prevention measures to travelers taking doxycycline and having a risk of significant sun exposure.
review-article	SPP491755	Antioxidant Properties of Ferulic Acid and Its Possible Application Antioxidant Properties of Ferulic Acid and Its Possible Application Ferulic acid has low toxicity and possesses many physiological functions (anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antimicrobial activity, anticancer, and antidiabetic effect). It has been widely used in the pharmaceutical, food, and cosmetics industry. Ferulic acid is a free radical scavenger, but also an inhibitor of enzymes that catalyze free radical generation and an enhancer of scavenger enzyme activity. Ferulic acid has a protective role for the main skin structures: keratinocytes, fibroblasts, collagen, elastin. It inhibits melanogenesis, enhances angiogenesis, and accelerates wound healing. It is widely applied in skin care formulations as a photoprotective agent, delayer of skin photoaging processes, and brightening component. Nonetheless, its use is limited by its tendency to be rapidly oxidized.
research-article	SPP494690	Evaluation of Serum Paraoxonase, Arylesterase, Prolidase Activities and Oxidative Stress in Patients with Alopecia Areata Evaluation of Serum Paraoxonase, Arylesterase, Prolidase Activities and Oxidative Stress in Patients with Alopecia Areata Background: Alopecia areata (AA) is a disease characterized by the hair loss sharply limited in any part of the body, especially on the scalp, in circular or oval areas. The purpose of this study is to search the serum paraoxonase 1 (PON1), arylesterase and oxidative status with serum prolidase activities in people with AA. Methods: The study included 60 AA and 50 healthy control subjects. In both groups, serum PON1, prolidase, arylesterase activities, total oxidative status (TOS) and total antioxidant capacity (TAS) levels and oxidative stress index (OSI) were calculated. Results: TOS, OSI levels and prolidase activity in patients with AA were found to be significantly higher compared to the control group (p = 0.02, p = 0.004, p &
review-article	SXD289578	A Review of Sex Determining Mechanisms in Geckos (Gekkota: Squamata) A Review of Sex Determining Mechanisms in Geckos (Gekkota: Squamata) Geckos are a species-rich clade of reptiles possessing diverse sex determining mechanisms. Some species possess genetic sex determination, with both male and female heterogamety, while other species have temperature-dependent sex determination. I compiled information from the literature on the taxonomic distribution of these sex determining mechanisms in geckos. Using phylogenetic data from the literature, I reconstructed the minimum number of transitions among these sex determining mechanisms with parsimony-based ancestral state reconstruction. While only a small number of gecko species have been characterized, numerous changes among sex determining mechanisms were inferred. This diversity, coupled with the high frequency of transitions, makes geckos excellent candidates as a model clade for the study of vertebrate sex determination and evolution.
case-report	SXD324689	"Robertsonian Translocation in a Sex Reversal Dog (XX, SRY negative) May Indicate that the Causative Mutation for This Intersexuality Syndrome Resides on Canine Chromosome 23 (CFA23) Robertsonian Translocation in a Sex Reversal Dog (XX, SRY negative) May Indicate that the Causative Mutation for This Intersexuality Syndrome Resides on Canine Chromosome 23 (CFA23) A Bernese mountain dog was subjected for clinical evaluation due to the presence of ambiguous external genitalia (enlarged clitoris). Anatomical and histological studies revealed the presence of one testicle, one ovotestis and a uterus. This dog was classified as a female-to-male sex reversal, with 2 normal X chromosomes and a lack of the Y chromosome-linked genes SRY and ZFY. It is the first case of this syndrome in this breed. Apparently a Robertsonian translocation, rob(5;23), was also identified in this dog and it is again the first case of this type of chromosome abnormality in this breed, as well as the first case of co-occurrence of the sex reversal syndrome along with a centric fusion in the dog. Since on the canine chromosome 23 (CFA23) 3 genes (FOXL2,PISRT1 and CTNNB1) involved in the sex determination process are present, further cytogenetic FISH studies were carried out with the use of BAC probes specific for this chromosome. It was found that a pericentromeric fragment of CFA23 was deleted as a result of the centric fusion. We hypothesize that a cis regulatory sequence for the sex determination genes on CFA23 (e.g. proximally located CTNNB1) is present in the deleted fragment. Thus, a causative mutation responsible for this sex reversal syndrome may reside on CFA23."
case-report	SXD448724	Non-Virilizing Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia in a Female Patient with a Novel HSD3B2 Mutation Non-Virilizing Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia in a Female Patient with a Novel HSD3B2 Mutation Classic 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (3β-HSD II) deficiency causes congenital adrenal hyperplasia with glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid, and sex steroid deficiency. We present a female patient with congenital adrenal hyperplasia detected in newborn screening due to elevated 17OH-progesterone. Female external genitalia and non-measurable androgen levels elicited the suspicion of a defect early in the steroid cascade. Two loss-of-function HSD3B2 mutations (1 novel) were detected and confirmed in silico. We argue that in a girl with glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiency without virilization, 3β-HSD II deficiency is an important differential diagnosis. 17OH-progesterone may initially be elevated due to placental and peripheral activity of 3β-HSD I, whereas dehydroepiandrosterone may not be increased.
review-article	SXD452362	The Reversible Sex of Gonochoristic Fish: Insights and Consequences The Reversible Sex of Gonochoristic Fish: Insights and Consequences Fish sex reversal is a means to understand sex determination and differentiation, but it is also used to control sex in aquaculture. This review discusses sex reversal in gonochoristic fish, with the coexistence of genetic and environmental influences. The different periods of fish sensitivity to sex reversal treatments are presented with the mechanisms implicated. The old players of sex differentiation are revisited with transcriptome data and loss of function studies following hormone- or temperature-induced sex reversal. We also discuss whether cortisol is the universal mediator of sex reversal in fish due to its implication in ovarian meiosis and 11KT increase. The large plasticity in fish for sex reversal is also evident in the brain, with a reversibility existing even in adulthood. Studies on epigenetics are presented, since it links the environment, gene expression, and sex reversal, notably the association of DNA methylation in sex reversal. Manipulations with exogenous factors reverse the primary sex in many fish species under controlled conditions, but several questions arise on whether this can occur under wild conditions and what is the ecological significance. Cases of sex reversal in wild fish populations are shown and their fitness and future perspectives are discussed.
review-article	SXD452637	Mechanism of Sex Determination in Humans: Insights from Disorders of Sex Development Mechanism of Sex Determination in Humans: Insights from Disorders of Sex Development In this review we will consider the gene mutations responsible for the non-syndromic forms of disorders of sex development (DSD) and how recent genetic findings are providing insights into the mechanism of sex determination. High-throughput sequencing technologies are having a major impact on our understanding of the genetic basis of rare human disorders, including DSD. The study of human DSD is progressively revealing subtle differences in the genetics of the sex-determining system between the mouse and the human. This plasticity of the sex-determining pathway is apparent in (a) the difference in phenotypes in human and mouse associated with the same gene, (b) the different gene regulatory mechanisms between human and mouse, and finally (c) the different and unexpected reproductive phenotypes seen in association with mutations in well-studied sex-determining genes.
review-article	SXD479453	Imaging Techniques in the Diagnostic Journey of Disorders of Sex Development Imaging Techniques in the Diagnostic Journey of Disorders of Sex Development Various disorders of sex development (DSD) result in an abnormal development of genitalia that may be recognized at prenatal ultrasonography, immediately after birth, or later in life. Because of the complex nature of DSD, the participation of a multidisciplinary team, including imaging or radiology technologists, is required to address the patient's medical needs. The first steps in the management of DSD are sex evaluation, which is based on factors such as the genotype, the presence, location, and appearance of reproductive organs, the potential for fertility, and the cultural background and beliefs of the patient's family. It is also important to ensure the detection of comorbidity (as in syndromes) and to define the etiology of DSD in order to offer the best prognosis. Ultrasonography is the primary modality for demonstrating internal organs, genitography is used to assess the urethra, vagina, and any fistulas, and magnetic resonance imaging is used as an additional modality to assess internal gonads and genitalia. This review presents the advantages and disadvantages and the sensitivity and specificity for each type of radiological imaging to help in the evaluation of DSD cases before and after birth.
meta-analysis	SXD491870	Impaired Spermatogenesis due to Small Supernumerary Marker Chromosomes: The Reason for Infertility Is Only Reliably Ascertainable by Cytogenetics Impaired Spermatogenesis due to Small Supernumerary Marker Chromosomes: The Reason for Infertility Is Only Reliably Ascertainable by Cytogenetics Infertile male with small supernumerary marker chromosomes (sSMCs) were studied. Overall, 37 own patients and 166 cases from the literature were included. sSMCs of our own cases were characterized by multicolor-FISH probe sets. Available clinical data of the infertile males were also evaluated, and meta-analysis on suitability of molecular karyotyping for sSMC characterization was done. As a result, sSMCs can be optimally characterized by single-cell directed (molecular) cytogenetics. In infertile males, sSMCs derive predominantly from one of the acrocentric chromosomes, mainly chromosomes 15, 14, and 22. Interestingly, altered spermiograms were found in 62% of the males with an sSMC, while the remainder cases had infertility in connection with recurrent spontaneous abortions. Meta-analysis for detectability of sSMCs by aCGH revealed that 81-87% of the cases would have not been picked up by exclusive use of that approach. Thus, as impaired spermatogenesis is known to be indicative for gross chromosomal anomalies in infertile male patients, it can be concluded from this study that the presence of sSMCs also needs to be considered. However, sSMCs can only be reliably detected by standard karyotyping and not by modern high throughput approaches like aCGH and next-generation sequencing.
review-article	SXD492188	Thermal Response of Epigenetic Genes Informs Turtle Sex Determination with and without Sex Chromosomes Thermal Response of Epigenetic Genes Informs Turtle Sex Determination with and without Sex Chromosomes Vertebrate sexual fate can be established by environmental cues (e.g., temperature-dependent sex determination, TSD) or by genetic content (genotypic sex determination, GSD). While methylation is implicated in TSD, the influence of broader epigenetic processes in sexual development remains obscure. Here, we investigated for the first time the embryonic gonadal expression of the genome-wide epigenetic machinery in turtles, including genes and noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) involved in DNA/histone acetylation, methylation, ubiquitination, phosphorylation, and RNAi. This machinery was active and differentially thermosensitive in TSD versus GSD (ZZ/ZW) turtles. Methylation and histone acetylation genes responded the strongest. The results suggest these working hypotheses: (i) TSD might be mediated by epigenetically controlled hormonal pathways (via acetylation, methylation, and ncRNAs), or by (ii) hormonally controlled epigenetic processes, and (iii) key epigenetic events prior to the canonical thermosensitive period may explain differences between TSD and GSD. Novel epigenetic candidate regulators other than methylation were identified, including previously unknown ncRNAs that could potentially mediate gonadogenesis. These findings illuminate the molecular ecology of reptilian sex determination and permitted hypothesis building to help guide future functional studies on the epigenetic transduction of external cues in TSD versus GSD systems.
research-article	SXD494896	Identification of Candidate Genes for Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser Syndrome Using Genomic Approaches Identification of Candidate Genes for Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser Syndrome Using Genomic Approaches Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser (MRKH) syndrome is a disorder of sex development which affects 1 in 4,500 females and is characterized by agenesis of müllerian structures, including the uterus, cervix, and upper vagina. It can occur in isolation (type 1) or in conjunction with various anomalies (type 2), with a subset of these comprising müllerian, renal, and cervicothoracic abnormalities (MURCS) association. The genetic causes of MRKH have been investigated previously yielding limited results, with massive parallel sequencing becoming increasingly utilized. We sought to identify genetic contributions to MRKH using a combination of microarray and whole exome sequencing (WES) on a cohort of 8 unrelated women with MRKH and MURCS. WES data were analysed using a candidate gene approach to identify potential contributing variants. Microarray analysis identified a 0.6-Mb deletion in the previously implicated 16p11.2 region in a patient with MRKH type 2. WES revealed 16 rare nonsynonymous variants in MRKH candidate genes across the cohort. These included variants in several genes, such as LRP10 and DOCK4, associated with disorders with müllerian anomalies. Further functional studies of these variants will help to delineate their biological significance and expand the genotypic spectrum of MRKH.
case-report	SXD495201	A Rare Mosaic Karyotype of 45,X/46,X,psu idic(Y)(p11.32)/46,XY with SHOX Haploinsufficiency, External Male Genitalia, and Short Stature A Rare Mosaic Karyotype of 45,X/46,X,psu idic(Y)(p11.32)/46,XY with SHOX Haploinsufficiency, External Male Genitalia, and Short Stature In this case study, we describe a 3-year-old boy who was referred to the Inonu University Hospital with short stature complaint. His height was 86 cm (-2.96 SDS), weight was 12 kg (-2.43 SDS), and head circumference was 46.5 cm (-2.34 SDS). Chromosomal analyses were performed on cultured peripheral blood lymphocytes of the patient and his parents and showed the patient's karyotype mos 45,X[20]/46,X,idic(Y)(p11.32)[29]/46,XY[1]. The karyotypes of the parents were normal. Subsequently, specific FISH probes were hybridized to the related regions of the sex-determining region Y (SRY), centromere X/Y (CEP X/Y), and short stature homeobox (SHOX) genes. Simultaneous SNP array-CGH was conducted. As to our knowledge, we present the first patient with mosaic isodicentric Y chromosome with 3 different cell lines and normal male external genitalia. Our results suggest that it would be beneficial to study cytogenetic and molecular cytogenetic methods together for better diagnostic accuracy and treatment.
review-article	SXD495383	Molecular Sexing of the White-Winged Guan (Penelope albipennis) and Other Wild Birds of the North of Peru Molecular Sexing of the White-Winged Guan (Penelope albipennis) and Other Wild Birds of the North of Peru The use of accurate and reliable techniques for sex determination of wild birds is of special importance in captive breeding programs, especially in birds with monogamous, aggressive behavior, with absence of copulation, and with a low hatching rate. Using PCR, we evaluated the relative efficacy of primers HPF/HPR and CHD1Wr/NP/CHD1Zr in the amplification of the chromo-helicase-DNA binding 1 (CHD1) gene for sex determination in Penelope albipennis and 8 other species of cracids, 4 species of falconids, 4 species of accipitrids, and 3 species of psittacines. Primer effectiveness was compared using previously sexed bird samples. The HPF/HPR primer set was found to demonstrate a better performance and reliability. Therefore, these primers should be used to determine the sex of juvenile birds to avoid or minimize incompatibilities during the selection of potential breeding pairs.
review-article	SZG284116	Entspannung: Neuropsychobiologische Aspekte einer vernachlässigten Selbstverständlichkeit Entspannung: Neuropsychobiologische Aspekte einer vernachlässigten Selbstverständlichkeit Hintergrund: Die Zunahme an Erkrankungen, bei denen Stress zumindest als Kofaktor angesehen wird, kann als Zeichen f&
review-article	TMH290897	Mesenchymal Stem or Stromal Cells: Toward a Better Understanding of Their Biology? Mesenchymal Stem or Stromal Cells: Toward a Better Understanding of Their Biology? The adult bone marrow has been generally considered to be composed of hematopoietic tissue and the associated supporting stroma. Within the latter compartment, a subset of cells with multipotent differentiation capacity exists, usually referred to as mesenchymal stem cells. Mesenchymal stem cells can easily be expanded ex vivo and induced to differentiate into several cell types, including osteoblasts, adipocytes and chondrocytes. Up to now, mesenchymal stem cells have gained wide popularity. Despite the rapid growth in this field, irritations remain with respect to the defining characteristics of these cells, including their differentiation potency, self-renewal and in vivo properties. As a consequence, there is a growing tendency to challenge the term mesenchymal stem cell, especially with respect to the stem cell characteristics. Here, we revisit the experimental origins of mesenchymal stem cells, their classical differentiation capacity into mesodermal lineages and their immunophenotype in order to assess their stemness and function. Based on these essentials, it has to be revisited if the designation as a stem cell remains an appropriate term.
research-article	TMH350688	"Platelet Activation Test in Unprocessed Blood (Pac-t-UB) to Monitor Platelet Concentrates and Whole Blood of Thrombocytopenic Patients Platelet Activation Test in Unprocessed Blood (Pac-t-UB) to Monitor Platelet Concentrates and Whole Blood of Thrombocytopenic Patients Background: Platelet concentrate transfusion is the standard treatment for hemato-oncology patients to compensate for thrombocytopenia. We have developed a novel platelet activation test in anticoagulated unprocessed blood (pac-t-UB) to determine platelet function in platelet concentrates and in blood of thrombocytopenic patients. Methods: We have measured platelet activity in a platelet concentrate and in anticoagulated unprocessed blood of a post-transfusion thrombocytopenic patient. Results: Our data show time-dependent platelet activation by GPVI agonist (collagen related peptide; CRP), PAR-1 agonist (SFLLRN), P2Y12 agonist (ADP), and thromboxane receptor agonist (U46619) in a platelet concentrate. Furthermore, pac-t-UB showed time-dependent platelet activation in unprocessed blood of a post-transfusion patient with thrombocytopenia. Testing platelet function by different agonists in relation to storage show that 3-day-old platelet concentrates are still reactive to the studied agonists. This reactivity rapidly drops for each agonists during longer storage. Discussion: Pac-t-UB is a novel tool to estimate platelet function by different agonists in platelet concentrates and in unprocessed blood of thrombocytopenic patients. In the near future, we will validate whether pac-t-UB is an adequate test to monitor the quality of platelet concentrates and whether pac-t-UB predicts the bleeding risk of transfused thrombocytopenic patients."
systematic-review	TMH351540	Emerging Infectious Threats to the Blood Supply: Seroepidemiological Studies in Iran - a Review Emerging Infectious Threats to the Blood Supply: Seroepidemiological Studies in Iran - a Review The risk of transfusion-transmitted infections has been greatly reduced by improvements in donor screening and testing. However, newly recognized blood-borne infectious agents can be threats to blood safety. In order to evaluate the prevalence some of these agents in blood donors, a systematic review was conducted. Data were obtained from published papers related to HGV, Torque Teno virus (TTV), HTLV, West Nile virus (WNV) and SEN virus (SEN-V). Based on these studies, the prevalence of HGV varied from 1 to 8.6% for anti-E2 and from 0 to 4.8% for HGV RNA. The prevalence of TTV DNA and HTLV-I varied from 2.7 to 79.5% and from 0.013 to 2.3%, respectively. The WNV-specific IgM antibody and WNV RNA are negative in blood donors. Prevalence rates of SEN-V in Iranian blood donors range from 23 to 90.8%. Consequences of these infectious agents for blood safety are different. Thus, the need to perform laboratory screening as well as effectiveness and efficiency of laboratory tests depend on pathogenicity level and epidemiological conditions of emerging infections. However, being prepared based on the current level of risk and interventions to reduce the risk can be effective in reducing the potential threat for blood supply.
systematic-review	TMH464297	"Thromboelastometry and Thrombelastography Analysis under Normal Physiological Conditions - Systematic Review Thromboelastometry and Thrombelastography Analysis under Normal Physiological Conditions - Systematic Review Background: Studies investigating thromboelastometry or thrombelastography analyses in a physiological context are scattered and not easy to access. Objective: To systematically retrieve and describe published reports studying healthy subjects and targeting at the correlation of ROTEM® and TEG® measurements with conventional parameters of hemostasis. Methods: Systematic Review: Papers were searched in Medline, Scopus and the Science Citation Index database. Reference lists of included studies and of reviews were screened. To be included papers had to report ROTEM or TEG data on healthy subjects. Two reviewers screened papers for inclusion, read full texts of potentially relevant papers, and extracted data of included papers. Results: Searches identified 1,721 records of which 1,713 were either excluded immediately or after reading the full text. The remaining 8 studies enrolled 632 subjects. The association of conventional parameters of hemostasis with ROTEM and with TEG was investigated in one and two studies, respectively. Overall correlation was limited and ranged from 0.0 to 0.40 (total thrombus generation vs. fibrinogen; clotting time INTEM vs. activated partial thromboplastin time). Conclusions: Studies assessing the relationship between thromboelastometry or thromboelastography analyses and conventional parameters of hemostasis in healthy subjects remains scarce, and correlations are limited. Further research is needed to understand the physiology of thromboelastometry and thromboelastography parameters."
review-article	TMH479633	Designing Human Antibodies by Phage Display Designing Human Antibodies by Phage Display With six approved products and more than 60 candidates in clinical testing, human monoclonal antibody discovery by phage display is well established as a robust and reliable source for the generation of therapeutic antibodies. While a vast diversity of library generation philosophies and selection strategies have been conceived, the power of molecular design offered by controlling the in vitro selection step is still to be recognized by a broader audience outside of the antibody engineering community. Here, we summarize some opportunities and achievements, e.g., the generation of antibodies which could not be generated otherwise, and the design of antibody properties by different panning strategies, including the adjustment of kinetic parameters.
systematic-review	TMH481994	Mortality, Morbidity and Related Outcomes Following Perioperative Blood Transfusion in Patients with Major Orthopaedic Surgery: A Systematic Review Mortality, Morbidity and Related Outcomes Following Perioperative Blood Transfusion in Patients with Major Orthopaedic Surgery: A Systematic Review Background: Benefits and risks of liberal and restrictive transfusion regimens are under on-going controversial discussion. This systematic review aimed at assessing both regimens in terms of pre-defined outcomes with special focus on patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery. Methods: We performed a literature search for mortality, morbidity and related outcomes following peri-operative blood transfusion in patients with major orthopaedic surgery in electronic databases. Combined outcome measure estimates were calculated within the scope of meta-analyses including randomised clinical trials comparing restrictive versus liberal blood transfusion regimens (e.g. MH risk ratio, Peto odds ratio). Results: A total of 880 publications were identified 15 of which were finally included (8 randomised clinical trials (RCTs) with 3,693 patients and 6 observational studies with 4,244,112 patients). Regarding RCTs, no significant differences were detected between the transfusion regimes for all primary outcomes (30-day mortality, thromboembolic events, stroke/transitory ischaemic attack, myocardial infarction, wound infection and pneumonia) and a secondary outcome (length of hospital stay), whereas there was a significantly reduced risk of receiving at least one red blood concentrate under a restrictive regimen. Conclusion: The results of this systematic review do not suggest an increased risk associated with either a restrictive or a liberal transfusion regimen in patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery.
meta-analysis	TMH488061	The Role of Autologous Platelet Concentrates in Alveolar Socket Preservation: A Systematic Review The Role of Autologous Platelet Concentrates in Alveolar Socket Preservation: A Systematic Review Prevention of alveolar bone resorption after tooth extraction may be useful for implant rehabilitation of the edentulous site minimizing the future need for bone augmentation procedures. A number of studies have investigated the efficacy of autologous platelet concentrates for the preservation of the alveolar bone volume after tooth extraction. Although encouraging results have been published, the available data are still controversial. The aim of the present systematic review was to assess the effect of platelet concentrates on alveolar socket preservation after tooth extraction. A literature search was carried out up to September 2017 for prospective controlled trials in which a test group using exclusively a platelet concentrate was compared with a control group in which extraction sockets were left to heal spontaneously. Seven controlled clinical trials published between 2010 and 2016 were included. A total of 320 extractions (170 tests and 150 controls) in 190 patients was considered. A great heterogeneity was found in terms of study design, methodological aspects, and outcome evaluation. For this reason, a quantitative analysis followed by meta-analysis was not possible, and only a descriptive analysis on the role of platelet concentrates in alveolar socket preservation was carried out. There is growing evidence that platelet concentrates may be advantageously used in postextraction sites, mainly to improve soft tissue healing and to reduce postoperative symptoms. Data about their potential in preserving the alveolar bone volume are still scarce and controversial, although recently encouraging results have been presented using more reliable and accurate evaluation technologies, such as the computed tomography. Further, well-designed and methodologically standardized investigations are strongly demanded to reach a higher level of evidence on this topic.
case-report	TMH490154	Efficacy of Antenatal Intravenous Immunoglobulin Treatment in Pregnancies at High Risk due to Alloimmunization to Red Blood Cells Efficacy of Antenatal Intravenous Immunoglobulin Treatment in Pregnancies at High Risk due to Alloimmunization to Red Blood Cells Background: Alloimmunization to red blood cells (RBCs) may result in fetal anemia prior to 20 weeks gestation. The question as to whether early commencement of antenatal treatment with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) may prevent or at least delay the development of fetal anemia in the presence of alloantibodies to RBCs is highly relevant. Patients and Results: Here we describe a patient with high-titer anti-K and two other severely affected pregnant women with a history of recurrent pregnancy loss due to high-titer anti-D or anti-D plus anti-C. Early commencement of treatment with IVIG (1 g/kg/week) resulted in prevention of intrauterine transfusion (IUT) in the former two cases, and in a significant delay of development of fetal anemia in the remaining case (26 weeks gestation). Conclusion: Based on our findings and of previously published cases, early initiation of treatment of severely alloimmunized women with IVIG (1 g/kg/week) could potentially improve the outcome of fetuses at risk.
case-report	TMH490897	Acute Hemolytic Transfusion Reaction due to Anti-P1: A Case Report and Review of Institutional Experience Acute Hemolytic Transfusion Reaction due to Anti-P1: A Case Report and Review of Institutional Experience Background: Here we report a case of acute hemolytic transfusion reaction (HTR) due to anti-P1 and review our institutional database for prevalence of anti-P1 antibodies and frequency of anti-P1-mediated HTR. Anti-P1 antibodies, reported to be present in up to two-thirds of P2 individuals, are usually clinically insignificant. However, rare cases of acute HTR due to anti-P1 are reported. Case Report: We report the clinical and laboratory features of a mild acute HTR due to an IgM anti-P1 not detected by a routinely used antibody screening method. We reviewed our institutional database to investigate prevalence of anti-P1 antibodies identified in our patient population and frequency of HTR in patients with anti-P1. Results: Analysis of RBC transfusion recipient data over the 10-year period from 2006 to 2015 showed prevalence of anti-P1 identified in our laboratory of 174 per 100,000 individuals. Frequency of HTR in patients with anti-P1 identified in our laboratory over a 10-year period was 1 in 1,429 RBC transfusions (0.07%). Conclusion: Our reported case of HTR mediated by IgM anti-P1 reactive at 37 °C confirms the potential of antibody screening methods designed to detect IgG antibodies to miss rare clinically significant IgM antibodies.
review-article	TMH491031	"Molecular Genetics of the Human Neutrophil Antigens Molecular Genetics of the Human Neutrophil Antigens Background and Objective: Antibodies to human neutrophil antigens (HNAs) have been implicated in transfusion-related acute lung injury and allo- and autoimmune neutropenia. To date, five HNA systems are assigned, and during the last decades enormous efforts have been undertaken to identify the underlying genes and to characterize the antigens. This review of the literature will provide the current genetic, molecular and functional information on HNAs. Recent Findings: New information on alleles and antigens has been added to nearly each of the five HNA systems. HNA-1d has been added as the antithetical epitope to HNA-1c that is located on the glycoprotein encoded by FCGR3B*02 but not by FCGR3B. FCGR3B*04 and *05 now are included as new alleles. A CD177*787A&gt;T substitution was demonstrated as the main reason for the HNA-2-negative phenotype on neutrophils. The target glycoprotein of HNA-3 antibodies could be identified as choline transporter-like protein 2 (CTL2) encoded by SLC44A2. The conformation sensitive epitope discriminates between arginine and glutamine at position 152 resulting in HNA-3a and HNA-3b. An additional Leu151Phe substitution can impair HNA-3a antibody binding. Recently an alloantibody against HNA-4b which discriminates from HNA-4a by an Arg61His exchange of the glycoprotein encoded by the ITGAM gene was reported in neonatal alloimmune neutropenia. An update of the current HNA nomenclature based on the new findings was provided in 2016 by the ISBT Granulocyte Immunobiology Working Party nomenclature subcommittee. Conclusions: The molecular basis of each of the five HNA antigen systems has been decoded during the past decades. This enables reliable molecular typing strategies, antibody detection and specification as well as development of new assays based on recombinant antigens. However, research on HNA alleles, antigens, and antibodies is not finally terminated and also in the future will add new findings."
review-article	TMH492629	An International Registry of Granulocyte Transfusions An International Registry of Granulocyte Transfusions Introduction: Granulocyte transfusions are used to either treat or prevent life-threatening infections in neutropenic patients. Current evidence from clinical trials does not support or reject efficacy, nor guide practice. Methods: A group of investigators have led the efforts to create an online registry to gather information on granulocyte transfusion practices from as broad a range of international settings. The data forms were adapted from an on-going study in England for electronic data management. Data is collected at the time of the request for granulocytes, weekly, at 28 days, and at 6 months. Information collected includes donor, granulocyte unit, patient and illness characteristics, and outcomes. Results: The PROspective GRanulocyte usage and outcomEs Survey (ProGrES) is currently open for data entry. Centres across the UK have collected data on 80 subjects. Five institutions from 4 countries (2 from the US, 1 each from Brazil, and national services in Canada and France) are in the process of joining the study. Other countries have expressed interest. Conclusion: It is feasible to develop an international registry of granulocyte transfusions to characterise current practices and describe outcomes. This registry would provide a platform to explore the relationship between intervention and outcomes, and to generate evidence to inform granulocyte transfusion efficacy.
review-article	TMH492949	Neonatal Alloimmune Neutropenia Neonatal Alloimmune Neutropenia Neonatal alloimmune neutropenia (NAIN, NAIN or NIN) is a neutrophil blood group antagonism, analogous to hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn (HDFN) and fetal/neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (FNAIT). A limited number of prospective screening studies showed that granulocyte-specific antibodies were detectable in 0.35-1.1% of random postnatal maternal samples and that the incidence of NAIN was below 0.1%. Symptoms vary from none to mild skin infections, omphalitis or more severe infections like pneumonia, sepsis, and meningitis. Treatment of neonatal infection with antibiotics and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor is advised.
review-article	TMH492950	"The Pathogenic Involvement of Neutrophils in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and Transfusion-Related Acute Lung Injury The Pathogenic Involvement of Neutrophils in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and Transfusion-Related Acute Lung Injury The acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a serious and common complication of multiple medical and surgical interventions, with sepsis, pneumonia, and aspiration of gastric contents being common risk factors. ARDS develops within 1 week of a known clinical insult or presents with new/worsening respiratory symptoms if the clinical insult is unknown. Approximately 40% of the ARDS cases have a fatal outcome. Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI), on the other hand, is characterized by the occurrence of respiratory distress and acute lung injury, which presents within 6 h after administration of a blood transfusion. In contrast to ARDS, acute lung injury in TRALI is not attributable to another risk factor for acute lung injury. ‘Possible TRALI', however, may have a clear temporal relationship to an alternative risk factor for acute lung injury. Risk factors for TRALI include chronic alcohol abuse and systemic inflammation. TRALI is the leading cause of transfusion-related fatalities. There are no specific therapies available for ARDS or TRALI as both have a complex and incompletely understood pathogenesis. Neutrophils (polymorphonuclear leukocytes; PMNs) have been suggested to be key effector cells in the pathogenesis of both syndromes. In the present paper, we summarize the literature with regard to PMN involvement in the pathogenesis of both ARDS and TRALI based on both human data as well as on animal models. The evidence generally supports a strong role for PMNs in both ARDS and TRALI. More research is required to shed light on the pathogenesis of these respiratory syndromes and to more thoroughly establish the nature of the PMN involvement, especially considering the heterogeneous etiologies of ARDS."
research-article	TMH494367	"Procoagulant Activity of Red Blood Cell-Derived Microvesicles during Red Cell Storage Procoagulant Activity of Red Blood Cell-Derived Microvesicles during Red Cell Storage Background: Red blood cells (RBCs) undergo structural and biochemical alterations during storage which are collectively called RBC storage lesion and cause a decrease in RBC recovery and survival. During storage, erythrocytes release an increasing number of microvesicles (MVs) that have key roles in biological processes. We aimed to investigate the procoagulant activity (PCA) of RBC-derived MVs during storage. Methods: 20 packed RBCs were stored for up to 42 days. Samples were taken at seven different times and evaluated for the presence of RBC-MVs. MVs were separated, and following filtration flow cytometry was used to characterize RBC-MVs based on the expression of glycophorin A (Gly.A) and annexin V (AnnV) antigens. The coagulant activity of RBC-MVs was tested by clotting time (CT) and PCA assays. Results were compared before and after filtration. Results: Flow cytometry revealed a 17.6-fold increase in RBC-MVs after 6 weeks of storage. Significant correlations were found between AnnV+ MVs and PCA (r = 0.96; p &lt; 0.001), and CT (r = -0.77; p &lt; 0.001) which was associated with increased PCA and shortened CT with RBC aging. Filtration of samples efficiently removed MVs (p &lt; 0.001) and also reduced in vitro PCA of MVs (p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: RBC-MVs are procoagulant (particularly AnnV+ MVs) Reduction of MVs from RBC concentrates may reduce the risk of transfusion-induced thrombotic complications."
review-article	UIN288231	"Renal Cell Carcinoma in Young Adults: A Study of 130 Cases and a Review of Previous Series Renal Cell Carcinoma in Young Adults: A Study of 130 Cases and a Review of Previous Series Objective: To characterize a large series of renal cell carcinomas (RCCs) in young patients and to compare the data obtained to previously published data. Patients and Methods: A total of 130 RCCs diagnosed in patients &lt;40 years of age were collected from 9 different hospitals in Spain. Cases were re-evaluated following the diagnostic criteria of the 2004 WHO classification of renal tumors. Results: Histologically, tumors were classified as clear cell (50.7%), papillary (8.5%), chromophobe (14.6%), unclassified (16.9%) and clear cell papillary (9.3%) RCCs. Organ-confined disease (OCD) was detected in 83.6% of the cases. Tumor size and Fuhrman’s grade were statistically correlated (Spearman’s ρ = 0.391). CD10 (p = 0.000), CK7 (p = 0.000), CD15 (p = 0.016), CD117 (p = 0.000), 34βE12 cytokeratin (p = 0.034) and e-cadherin (p = 0.000) immunostaining significantly differentiated the five histological categories. Conclusions: OCD was more common in young RCC patients. The clear cell phenotype accounted for only 50% of RCCs in this age group, with an increasing number of chromophobe and unclassified RCCs. Clear cell RCCs with a papillary growth pattern accounted for a significant proportion of the cases."
review-article	UIN302715	Management of the Distal Ureter during Nephroureterectomy for Upper Urinary Tract Transitional Cell Carcinoma: A Review Management of the Distal Ureter during Nephroureterectomy for Upper Urinary Tract Transitional Cell Carcinoma: A Review Introduction: The standard treatment for upper urinary tract transitional cell carcinoma (UUT-TCC) is open radical nephroureterectomy with excision of a bladder cuff. We assess the successful endoscopic completion and oncological efficacy of the various minimally invasive transurethral techniques devised for the management of the intramural ureter during nephroureterectomy. Materials and Methods: A comprehensive review of the English literature until February 2009 using the PubMed database returned 42 relevant papers. Five methods of endoscopic management of the distal ureter were identified and compared to the open technique. Results: There are no randomised studies. Successful completion of the endoscopic procedure was less (91%) for the ureteric stripping technique than for the other endoscopic modalities (99.8–100%). Recurrences were highest for laparoscopic extravesical ureteric stapling in conjunction with cystoscopic detachment of the ureter, although the numbers analysed were small. For the other endoscopic modalities, bladder recurrence, positive margins and retroperitoneal recurrence (20–37, 0–4 and 1–3%, respectively) in case series were similar compared with the open method (36, 5 and 3%, respectively). Conclusions: Current non-randomised evidence is open to selection bias and is insufficient to support or refute endoscopic management of the distal ureter as an alternative to open bladder cuff excision. We highlight the reported inefficiency of the ureteric stripping technique.
systematic-review	UIN336145	Standard versus Tubeless Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy: A Systematic Review Standard versus Tubeless Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy: A Systematic Review Objective: This article systematically analyses comparative studies to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tubeless percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) versus standard PCNL. Methods: The Medline, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Cochrane and DARE databases were searched from 1997 to February 2011. Comparative studies evaluating outcomes from standard versus tubeless PCNL were included. Primary outcome measures were post-operative pain scoring, analgesic requirements, duration of hospitalisation/convalescence, operation time, major/minor complications and stone-free rates. Results: Twenty-four studies were included (11 randomised control trials and 13 retrospective or prospective studies). Levels of pain recorded, analgesic requirements, duration of inpatient stay and convalescence time were all significantly reduced in the tubeless PCNL group. Cost was reduced in two studies. Morbidity was not significantly different between the groups. There was no significant difference between groups regarding stone-free status. Discussion: This systematic review has demonstrated that tubeless PCNL is a viable alternative to tubed PCNL in uncomplicated cases. Benefits are as described above. There is no evidence suggesting that patient safety is compromised by the absence of post-operative nephrostomy. The tubeless method has been reported in challenging cases such as stag-horn stones, horseshoe or ectopic kidneys. Promising outcomes have been demonstrated in elderly patients and when clinical needs demand a supracostal approach. Multi-centre randomised controlled trials are needed to fully establish the effectiveness of the tubeless method.
systematic-review	UIN339521	Prostate Saturation Biopsy following a First Negative Biopsy: State of the Art Prostate Saturation Biopsy following a First Negative Biopsy: State of the Art Introduction: Saturation prostate biopsy (SPBx) has been initially introduced to improve prostate cancer (PCa) detection rate (DR) in the repeat setting. Nevertheless, the optimal number and the most appropriate location of the cores, together with the timing to perform a second PBx and the eventual modification of the PBx protocols according to the different clinical situations, are matters of debate. The aim of this review is to perform a critical analysis of the literature about the actual role of SPBx in the repeat setting. Materials and Methods: We performed a systematic review of the literature since 1995 up to 2011. Electronic searches were limited to the English language, using the MEDLINE database. The key words ‘saturation prostate biopsy’ and ‘repeated prostate biopsy’ were used. Results: SPBx improves PCa DR if clinical suspicion persists after previous biopsy with negative findings and provides an accurate prediction of prostate tumor volume and grade, even if the issue about the number and locations of the cores is still a matter of debate. Conclusions: At present, SPBx seems to be really necessary in men with persistent suspicion of PCa after negative initial biopsy and probably in patients with a multifocal high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia or atypical small acinar proliferation. In the remaining situations, adopting an individualized scheme is preferable.
systematic-review	UIN339929	Prevalence, Incidence and Obstetric Factors’ Impact on Female Urinary Incontinence in Europe: A Systematic Review Prevalence, Incidence and Obstetric Factors’ Impact on Female Urinary Incontinence in Europe: A Systematic Review Objectives: A systematic review of the published data on the prevalence, incidence and risk factors of female urinary incontinence (UI) and obstetric treatment of UI in Europe. Data Sources: Epidemiologic studies were sought via PubMed to identify articles published in English, French, Spanish, German and Italian between 2000 and September 30, 2010, in Europe. Results: The prevalence of UI ranged from 14.1 to 68.8% and increased with increasing age. Significant risk factors for UI in pregnancy were maternal age ≥35 years and initial body mass index, a family history of UI and parity. UI in women who delivered ‘at term’ ranged from 26 to 40.2%, with a remission rate of 3 months after childbirth of up to 86.4%. Pelvic floor muscle training may help to prevent postpartum UI in primiparous women without UI during pregnancy. Conclusion: UI definition, outcome measures, survey methods and validation criteria are still heterogeneous, and thus it is difficult to compare data and impossible to draw definite conclusions.
systematic-review	UIN343732	"Outcomes of Ureteroscopy for Stone Disease in Pregnancy: Results from a Systematic Review of the Literature Outcomes of Ureteroscopy for Stone Disease in Pregnancy: Results from a Systematic Review of the Literature Introduction: Our aim was to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of ureteroscopy as a primary treatment for pregnant women with symptomatic ureteric stones who have failed conservative management. Materials and Methods: A systematic review of the literature from January 1990 to June 2011 was performed, including all English language articles. Outcome measures were clinical efficacy, in terms of stone clearance and need for additional procedures, and safety in terms of complications. Results: A total of 239 abstracts were screened and 15 studies were identified reporting on 116 procedures. The surgical methods of stone management employed were stone extraction with basket only (n = 55, 47%), laser fragmentation (n = 27, 23%; holmium, n = 20, pulse dye, n = 7), impact lithotripsy (n = 21, 18%), ureteroscopic lithotripsy (n = 6, 5%) and a combination of methods (n = 6, 5%). A post-operative stent was inserted in 64 of 116 procedures (55%). Complete stone clearance was seen in 100 of the 116 procedures (86%). There were 2 major complications (1 ureteral perforation and 1 case of premature uterine contraction) and 7 minor complications (5 urinary tract infections and 2 cases of post-operative pain). Conclusion: This review suggests that stone clearance using ureteroscopy is a relatively safe option in pregnancy with a high success rate."
systematic-review	UIN345141	"Adrenal Oncocytic Neoplasm: A Systematic Review Adrenal Oncocytic Neoplasm: A Systematic Review Introduction: Oncocytic neoplasms as tumors arising in the adrenal glands are rare, usually considered as nonfunctional and benign. In the current literature, there are extremely limited reports of adrenal oncocytic neoplasms; as to date, only 147 cases have been described. The rarity of the event prompted this study which reviews and presents the incidence, histology, diagnosis and therapy of adrenal oncocytic neoplasms. Materials and Methods: A review by systematic literature search was done using the MEDLINE®/Cochrane libraries from 1950 to date using the medical subject headings ‘oncocytoma', ‘adrenal gland', ‘adrenal oncocytoma', ‘adrenal oncocytic neoplasm' and ‘adrenal oncocytic carcinoma'. Results: Adrenal oncocytic neoplasm is a rare disease, usually incidentally detected because only 17% are functional adrenal masses. The typical oncocyte displays abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm, due to the accumulation of mitochondria. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are not able to identify or differentiate benign and malignant oncocytic neoplasms. The mainstay of therapy is adrenalectomy, recently performed by laparoscopy. The prognosis is good for benign tumors, while adrenocortical oncocytic carcinoma has a poor survival rate of only 5 years. Conclusions: Adrenal oncocytic neoplasm, a rare and mostly benign tumor, usually presents as an incidental, large adrenal mass; surgery is the mainstay of therapy, by means of laparoscopy which is now the most diffuse approach to adrenalectomy."
research-article	UIN345312	Introducing The Productive Operating Theatre Programme in Urology Theatre Suites Introducing The Productive Operating Theatre Programme in Urology Theatre Suites Background: The Productive Operating Theatre (TPOT) is a theatre improvement programme designed by the UK National Health Service. The aim of this study was to evaluate the implementation of TPOT in urology operating theatres and identify obstacles to running an ideal operating list. Method: TPOT was introduced in two urology operating theatres in September 2010. A multidisciplinary team identified and audited obstacles to the running of an ideal operating list. A brief/debrief system was introduced and patient satisfaction was recorded via a structured questionnaire. The primary outcome measure was the effect of TPOT on start and overrun times. Results: Start times: 39-41% increase in operating lists starting on time from September 2010 to June 2011, involving 1,365 cases. Overrun times: Declined by 832 min between March 2010 and March 2011. The cost of monthly overrun decreased from September 2010 to June 2011 by GBP 510-3,030. Patient experience: A high degree of satisfaction regarding level of care (77%), staff hygiene (71%) and information provided (72%), while negative comments regarding staff shortages and environment/facilities were recorded. Conclusions: TPOT has helped identify key obstacles and shown improvements in efficiency measures such as start/overrun times.
research-article	UIN346088	Study of the Prevalence and Interobserver Reproducibility of Radiologic Images Suggestive of Urethral Diverticula in Men with Spinal Cord Injury Study of the Prevalence and Interobserver Reproducibility of Radiologic Images Suggestive of Urethral Diverticula in Men with Spinal Cord Injury Objectives: To determine the prevalence of radiologic images suggestive of urethral diverticula (UD) in men with spinal cord injury (SCI) and to study the interobserver diagnostic reproducibility. Methods: Radiological studies (i.e. voiding cystourethrography and retrograde urethrography) performed over 1 year on men with SCI were independently reviewed by 3 researchers (1 urologist and 2 radiologists). Results: The prevalence of UD was found to be between 4.2 and 9.8% of the patients, the higher figure obtained when including also the doubtful images. The kappa index of agreement between the researchers was low (between 0.15 and 0.40). The factors that significantly influenced agreement were localization in the prostatic urethra (p = 0.021), localization in the penile urethra (p = 0.000) and fusiform morphology (p = 0.004). Logistic regression analysis showed that the variables that independently influenced diagnostic agreement were the following: localization in the penile urethra (in favor of agreement) and fusiform morphology (against agreement). Conclusions: Radiologic images suggestive of UD constitute a frequent finding in men with SCI and raise important diagnostic problems.
research-article	UIN346751	Pathological Characteristics, Biochemical Recurrence and Functional Outcome in Radical Prostatectomy Patients on Statin Therapy Pathological Characteristics, Biochemical Recurrence and Functional Outcome in Radical Prostatectomy Patients on Statin Therapy Introduction: We assessed the pathological characteristics of the radical prostatectomy specimen, the rate of biochemical failure and the functional outcome after surgery, in terms of incontinence and erectile dysfunction rate, in patients on statin medication. Materials and Methods: A total of 588 patients with a mean age 65.2 years (SD = 5.7 years) participated in the study. All patients were contacted and interviewed. Results: Users who had been on statin medication for more than 2 years had lower levels of preoperative serum PSA (p = 0.034), a 2.76 times greater likelihood of being staged as pT3a to pT3b rather than pT2a to pT2c, and a 5.39 times greater likelihood of having a postoperative Gleason score equal to seven or more. Positive surgical margins and urinary incontinence were not significantly associated with statin use. The probability of erectile dysfunction was significantly greater for statin users. Conclusion: Statin medication was associated with a statistically significantly lower PSA value and an increased rate of high Gleason score and pathologic stage in patients receiving medication for more than 2 years. Statins were found to be an independent predictor of recurrence. Lastly, statin users were more likely to present with preoperative and postoperative erectile dysfunction.
research-article	UIN347025	The Role of Transarterial Embolization in the Management of Hematuria Secondary to Congenital Renal Arteriovenous Malformations The Role of Transarterial Embolization in the Management of Hematuria Secondary to Congenital Renal Arteriovenous Malformations Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of transarterial embolization (TAE) in the management of hematuria secondary to congenital renal arteriovenous malformations (AVM). Patients and Methods: Between May 2007 and February 2012, 6 patients with congenital AVM treated with TAE were analyzed retrospectively, followed by a brief review of TAE in the treatment of congenital AVM. Clinical records with respect to general conditions, location, embolic materials, complications and overall outcome were collected from the original hospital charts and outpatient medical records. Results: Three patients with AVM were confirmed by contrast-enhanced CT scans, and the other 3 patients were detected by renal angiography. TAE was performed with steel coils in 2 patients and n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (NBCA) in 4 patients. After a mean follow-up of 22 months, no serious adverse effects were observed in all patients. There were no complaints of hematuria at the end of the follow-up period. Conclusion: For unexplained massive hematuria, congenital renal AVM needs to be considered as a differential diagnosis. Selective renal angiography and embolization should be recommended as the first choice to treat massive hematuria secondary to congenital renal AVM.
research-article	UIN347186	Comparison of Three Versions of Partin Tables to Predict Final Pathologic Stage in a Chinese Cohort: A Decision Curve Analysis Comparison of Three Versions of Partin Tables to Predict Final Pathologic Stage in a Chinese Cohort: A Decision Curve Analysis Purpose: To compare Partin tables (PTs) 1997, 2001, and 2007 for their clinical applicability in a Chinese cohort based upon a decision curve analysis (DCA). Methods: Clinical and pathologic data of 264 consecutive Chinese patients with clinically localized prostate cancer were used. These patients underwent open radical prostatectomy between 2005 and 2011. DCA quantified the net benefit of different PT versions relating to specific threshold probabilities of established capsular penetration (ECP), seminal vesicle involvement (SVI), and lymph node involvement (LNI). Results: Overall, ECP, SVI, and LNI were recorded in 23.1, 10.2, and 6.1%, respectively. When the threshold probability was below the prevalence for LNI and ECP predictions, the DCA favored the 2007 version versus the 1997 version for SVI. Conclusions: DCA indicates that for low threshold probability, decision models are useful to discriminate the performance differences of three PT versions, although net benefit differences were not apparent. For high threshold probability, there may not be an important benefit from the use of PTs and the current analysis cannot translate into meaningful net gains differences.
research-article	UIN347191	Osthole Ameliorates Renal Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury by Inhibiting Inflammatory Response Osthole Ameliorates Renal Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury by Inhibiting Inflammatory Response Introduction: Renal ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a primary cause of acute renal failure that results in high mortality. This study aimed to investigate the effect of osthole, a natural coumarin derivative, on renal I/R injury in a rat model. Materials and Methods: Rats were randomly allocated to the sham operation + vehicle, I/R + vehicle, and I/R + osthole groups. Renal I/R injury was induced by clamping the left renal artery for 45 min followed by 12 h of reperfusion and a contralateral nephrectomy. Osthole (40 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected 30 min before inducing I/R. Renal function and histological damage were determined subsequently. Myeloperoxidase activity, monocyte/macrophage infiltration, as well as tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-1β, and activated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase expression in kidneys were also assessed. Results: Osthole treatment significantly ameliorated I/R-induced renal functional and morphological injuries. Moreover, osthole treatment attenuated myeloperoxidase activity, monocyte/macrophage infiltration, and tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-1β, and activated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase expression in kidneys. Conclusions: Osthole treatment ameliorates renal I/R injury by inhibiting inflammatory responses in kidneys. Thus, osthole may represent a novel practical strategy to prevent renal I/R injury.
research-article	UIN348329	"E-Cadherin and β-Catenin Expression during Urothelial Carcinogenesis Induced by N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine in Mice E-Cadherin and β-Catenin Expression during Urothelial Carcinogenesis Induced by N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine in Mice Background: E-cadherin and β-catenin are adhesion molecules that promote integrity and stability of the urothelium. A decrease in their expression is associated with more aggressive tumour phenotypes with the ability to invade and metastasize. Material and Methods: 45 ICR male mice were used, of which 25 received N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (0.05%) in drinking water for a period of 12 weeks. Immunohistochemical expression was evaluated in all urinary bladder preparations for E-cadherin and for β-catenin. Results: Preneoplastic lesions showed staining patterns similar to normal urothelium. In simple and nodular hyperplasia, membrane staining was dominant (66.7-78.6 and 50-100%, respectively). In dysplasia a cytoplasmic pattern was prevalent (86.7-100%). Neoplastic lesions exhibit an abnormal staining pattern (100%) with heterogeneous staining (cytoplasmic, nuclear and membrane staining). A strong correlation was observed between both adhesion molecule staining patterns (r = 0.83; p = 0.039). Conclusions: In mice, as in humans, E-cadherin and β-catenin are valuable tools to investigate cellular adhesion status of urothelium and can be considered as indicators of tumour aggressiveness and evolution."
research-article	UIN348330	Should Bone Scan be Performed in Chinese Prostate Cancer Patients at the Time of Diagnosis? Should Bone Scan be Performed in Chinese Prostate Cancer Patients at the Time of Diagnosis? Background: Prostate cancer (PCa) is increasingly being diagnosed in China. Early detection of bone metastases (BM) is critical in the management of patients with high-risk PCa. The aim of this study is to establish a screening model to determine if bone scan should be performed for BM in Chinese patients at the time when PCa is diagnosed. Materials and Methods: The study included 488 patients who were diagnosed with PCa between 2009 and 2011 at a single center. All patients received bone scans using technetium 99mTc methylene diphosphonate at the initial staging. If the bone scan finding was equivocal, computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging was performed to confirm the diagnosis. Age, prostate-specific antigen (PSA) at diagnosis, clinical stage assigned according to the TNM 2002 staging system and biopsy Gleason score were collected in all patients. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed to identify statistically significant covariates and then receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated to identify optimal cut-off values. Using these cut-off values, a formula was devised to calculate an index value for BM screening at diagnosis. The model was cross-validated using the leave-one-out method. Results: Of the 488 patients, 65 patients (13.3%) had BM. The area under the ROC curve was 0.87 (95% confidence interval 0.83-0.94). The sensitivity of the cut-off point was 87.7% and the speci&
research-article	UIN348335	"The Use of Intracavernous Injection and Audiovisual Sexual Stimulation during Real-Time Pharmacopenile Doppler Ultrasonography in Vasculogenic Erectile Dysfunction The Use of Intracavernous Injection and Audiovisual Sexual Stimulation during Real-Time Pharmacopenile Doppler Ultrasonography in Vasculogenic Erectile Dysfunction Introduction: The objective of this study was to explore the role of intracavernous injection (ICI) and audiovisual sexual stimulation (AVSS) during real-time pharmacopenile Doppler ultrasonography (PDDU) in vasculogenic subtypes of erectile dysfunction. Materials and Methods: A total of 200 consecutive men with erectile dysfunction (ED) were enrolled. Each patient received 2 sessions of real-time PDDU. Session A was performed under ICI alone. Session B was performed under ICI plus AVSS. The interval between sessions was 7 days. Penile vascular parameters, including peak systolic velocity (PSV), end diastolic velocity (EDV) and resistive index, were monitored 5, 10 and 20 min after the start of the test. Patients were asked to describe the level of sexual arousal generated by choosing one of the pre-set answers. Results: In veno-occlusive ED, during session A, EDV at 10 min was significantly greater than at 5 and 20 min (p &lt; 0.05). During session B, there was a significant difference regarding PSV in arteriogenic ED (p &lt; 0.05). Mixed vasculogenic ED showed significant differences in PSV levels during session B, and EDV at 5 min was greater than at 10 and 20 min (p &lt; 0.05). PDDU under ICI alone diagnosed 34 (17%), 35 (17.5%), 31 (15.5%) and 100 (50%) cases of arteriogenic, veno-occlusive, mixed vasculogenic and nonvasculogenic ED, respectively. The combination of ICI plus AVSS diagnosed 27 (13.5%), 44 (22%), 7 (3.5%) and 122 (60.7%) cases, respectively. Conclusions: Adding AVSS during PDDU improves the recording of physiologic erectile response and may help the physician to accurately evaluate the cause of ED."
systematic-review	UIN349884	"Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Ureteric Stump: A Systematic Review of the Literature Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Ureteric Stump: A Systematic Review of the Literature Objective: To present a review of the literature using evidence-based criteria for diagnosis and treatment of malignant growths in the ureteric remnant following nephrectomy for non-malignant disease. Methods: A database search using the key search words was performed, producing a total of 16 articles published between 1952 and 2009. The Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine classification was used. Statistical significance was tested by Pearson correlation. Demographic data, reason for nephrectomy, symptoms, time to diagnosis since initial nephrectomy, imaging modality and treatment option chosen, as well as histology and overall survival were reviewed. Results: Analysis was possible for 33 out of 63 cases reported in the literature. There was a male predominance (82%). Visible, painless haematuria was the presenting symptom in 72% of cases. Open ureterectomy was performed in the majority of patients (85%), while none had laparoscopic surgery. Transitional cell carcinoma was found in 66% of cases. Mean follow-up was 2.7 years. Metastases were detected in 36% and correlated significantly with cancer-specific mortality (95% CI: p &lt; 0.001). Tumour stage, grade and cell type did not correlate significantly with mortality. Conclusion: Gross, painless haematuria is a feature highly suggestive of neoplastic change. Diagnosis often involves multimodality imaging and endoscopy. Complete ureterectomy with removal of bladder cuff, previously resected endoscopically, is the treatment of choice. Metastases at diagnosis and follow-up carry a worse prognosis."
systematic-review	UIN351325	Obesity and Prostate Cancer Incidence and Mortality: A Systematic Review of Prospective Cohort Studies Obesity and Prostate Cancer Incidence and Mortality: A Systematic Review of Prospective Cohort Studies Background: There has been a large body of research on obesity and the risk of prostate cancer (PCa) that has been published recently. However, the epidemiological evidence for such an association has not been consistent. This may be attributed to the nature of case-control and retrospective studies, which generally are more prone to biases. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review of prospective cohort studies to assess the association between obesity and the risk of PCa incidence and death. Methods: A search of the PubMed database and references of published studies (from inception until March 2013) was conducted. Twenty-three eligible studies were identified and included in the systematic review. Results: The evidence from the prospective cohort studies linking obesity with PCa incidence has not been consistent. However, cumulative data is compelling for a strong positive association between obesity and fatal PCa. Conclusions: Obesity is a significant diet-related risk factor for fatal PCa. Further well-constructed, large cohort studies on the potential association between obesity and PCa, as well as on underlying mechanisms, are needed.
systematic-review	UIN362903	Effects of Pumpkin Seed in Men with Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms due to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia in the One-Year, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled GRANU Study Effects of Pumpkin Seed in Men with Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms due to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia in the One-Year, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled GRANU Study Introduction: The German Research Activities on Natural Urologicals (GRANU) study was a randomized, partially blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial that investigated the efficacy of pumpkin seed in men with lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH/LUTS). Subjects and Methods: A total of 1,431 men (50−80 years) with BPH/LUTS were randomly assigned to either pumpkin seed (5 g b.i.d.), capsules with pumpkin seed extract (500 mg b.i.d.) or matching placebo. The primary response criterion was a decrease in International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) of ≥5 points from baseline after 12 months. Secondary outcome measures included IPSS-related quality of life, IPSS single items and diary-recorded nocturia. Results: After 12 months, the response rate (intention-to-treat/last-observation-carried-forward approach) did not differ between pumpkin seed extract and placebo. In the case of pumpkin seed (responders: 58.5%), the difference compared with placebo (responders: 47.3%) was descriptively significant. The study products were well tolerated. Overall, in men with BPH, 12 months of treatment with pumpkin seed led to a clinically relevant reduction in IPSS compared with placebo. Conclusion: In order to fully justify a recommendation for the use of pumpkin seed to treat moderate LUTS, these findings need to be substantiated in a confirmatory study or systematic review.
systematic-review	UIN366008	"Retropubic, Laparoscopic, and Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy: Surgical, Oncological, and Functional Outcomes: A Systematic Review Retropubic, Laparoscopic, and Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy: Surgical, Oncological, and Functional Outcomes: A Systematic Review Objectives: Despite the wide diffusion of minimally invasive approaches, such as laparoscopic (LRP) and robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (RALP), few studies compare the results of these techniques with the retropubic radical prostatectomy (RRP) approach. The aim of this study is to compare the surgical, functional, and oncological outcomes and cost-effectiveness of RRP, LRP, and RALP. Methods: A systematic review of the literature was performed in the PubMed and Embase databases in December 2013. A ‘free-text' protocol using the term ‘radical prostatectomy' was applied. A total of 16,085 records were found. The authors reviewed the records to identify comparative studies to include in the review. Results: 44 comparative studies were identified. With regard to the perioperative outcome, LRP and RALP were more time-consuming than RRP, but blood loss, transfusion rates, catheterisation time, hospitalisation duration, and complication rates were the most optimal in the laparoscopic approaches. With regard to the functional and oncological results, RALP was found to have the best outcomes. Conclusion: Our study confirmed the well-known perioperative advantage of minimally invasive techniques; however, available data were not sufficient to prove the superiority of any surgical approach in terms of functional and oncologic outcomes. On the contrary, cost comparison clearly supports RRP."
research-article	UIN366209	A Comparison of 120 W Laser Photoselective Vaporization versus Transurethral Resection of the Prostate for Bladder Outlet Obstruction by Prostate Cancer A Comparison of 120 W Laser Photoselective Vaporization versus Transurethral Resection of the Prostate for Bladder Outlet Obstruction by Prostate Cancer Objective: To compare the mid-term outcomes of photoselective vaporization of prostate (PVP) with GreenLight HPS 120 W laser and transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) for obstructive lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in men with prostate cancer (CaP). Patients and Methods: Seventy four patients with locally advanced (T3/T4) CaP with severe LUTS or acute urinary retention (AUR) were allocated to TURP (n = 36) or PVP (n = 38). International Prostate Symptom Scores (IPSS), maximum flow rates (Qmax) and post-void residual volumes (Vres), PSA levels, prostate volumes, complications, catheter removal and hospitalization periods were recorded. Patients were reassessed at 3, 6, and 12 months. Results: The catheter removal time was significantly longer in the TURP group (3.8 ± 1.1 vs. 1.2 ± 0.7 days, p = 0.02), whereas failure of initial voiding trial was higher in PVP (2.7 vs. 13.1%, p = 0.01). No significant difference in IPSS, Qmax and Vres values was observed within the follow-up period between two groups. A significant difference in urethral stricture rate (8.3 vs. 0%), catheter removal time (3.8 ± 11 vs. 1.2 ± 0.7 days) and hospital stay (2.9 ± 0.6 vs. 1.1 ± 0.5 days) was observed in favor of PVP. Conclusions: Palliative PVP is very safe and effective by means of symptomatic relief in patients with locally advanced CaP.
systematic-review	UIN366210	Oxidative Stress in Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: A Systematic Review Oxidative Stress in Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: A Systematic Review Background: Several parameters including inflammatory mediators, hormones, dietary factors, inflammatory genes, and oxidative stress (OS) have been considered to play a role in the development of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Prostate tissue damage and OS may lead to compensatory cellular proliferation with resulting hyperplastic growth. Methods: We searched MEDLINE for articles in English published up to March 2014 using the key words ‘oxidative stress', ‘antioxidants' and ‘benign prostatic hyperplasia'. Results: Prostatic inflammation can cause the generation of free radicals. The extent of oxidative damage can be exacerbated by a decreased efficiency of antioxidant defense mechanisms. The balance between OS and the antioxidant component also has a role in developing prostate disease. Several works show the role of oxidant products and of depletion of antioxidant substances in BPH patients. It is accepted that free radicals play a role in carcinogenesis and that BPH should be considered a premalignant condition which may evolve into prostate cancer. High OS parameters and low antioxidant activity are more prominent in prostate cancer patients compared with BPH and controls. Conclusions: Further studies are needed to clarify the potential role of antioxidants in BPH also in view of preventing the progression to prostate cancer.
meta-analysis	UIN367997	"Safety and Postoperative Outcomes of Regional versus Global Ischemia for Partial Nephrectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Safety and Postoperative Outcomes of Regional versus Global Ischemia for Partial Nephrectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: To analyze current evidence comparing the safety and outcomes of regional and global ischemia for partial nephrectomy (PN). Materials and Methods: A systematic search of the PubMed and Web of Science databases was conducted in May 2014 to identify studies comparing the safety and outcomes of regional and global ischemia for PN. A systematic review and meta-analysis was also performed. Results: Six retrospective observational studies were selected for the analysis, including 363 patients who underwent PN (162 regional ischemia and 201 global ischemia cases). Operation times were not statistically different [weighted mean difference (WMD) = 20.35 min, 95% CI: -0.28-40.97, p = 0.05], but estimated blood loss was significantly higher in the regional ischemia group (WMD = 52.04 ml, 95% CI: 14.30-89.78, p = 0.007) than in the global ischemia group. Complication rates [odds ratio (OR) = 1.16; 95% CI: 0.63-2.15, p = 0.63] and blood transfusion rates (OR = 1.85; 95% CI: 0.86-4.01, p = 0.12) of the two groups were not significantly different. The regional ischemia group showed better postoperative renal function (WMD = 4.23 ml/min, 95% CI: 2.61-5.85, p &lt; 0.00001) than the global ischemia group, and all cases in the regional ischemia group showed negative margins. Conclusions: Regional ischemia is as safe to perform as global ischemia, and the former leads to better postoperative renal functions than the latter. These findings support the application of regional ischemia for PN."
research-article	UIN368373	Is Micropercutaneous Nephrolithotomy Technique Really Efficacicous for the Treatment of Moderate Size Renal Calculi? Yes Is Micropercutaneous Nephrolithotomy Technique Really Efficacicous for the Treatment of Moderate Size Renal Calculi? Yes Objective: To present our clinical experiences with micropercutaneous nephrolithotomy in the treatment of moderate-sized renal calculi from a single center. Methods: We retrospectively evaluated the patients with moderate-sized renal calculi who underwent micro-percutaneous nephrolithotomy between December 2012 and Septermber 2013. Results: A total of 68 patients and 70 renal units underwent microperc procedure. Mean age of patients was 41.4 ± 18.8. The mean stone size was 122 ± 83 mm2. The operations were performed under spinal anesthesia in 89.7% of the patients. Stone-free rate was 95.7 % (67/70). Clinically significant residual fragments were observed in three patients. The average duration of operation and mean fluoroscopy time was 40 ± 23 min and 108 ± 72 s, respectively. The mean postoperative drop in hemoglobin was 0.95 ± 0.7 while no patient required blood transfusion. Patients were discharged after an average hospitalization time of 27.5 ± 12.4 h. A total of 4 complications (5.7%), including urinary tract infection (Clavien I) in one patient and renal colics requiring stent insertion (Clavien IIIa) in three patients, were observed postoperatively. Conclusion: Microperc technique is safe, feasible, and efficacious. We suggest that micro-percutaneous nephrolithotomy should be considered for the treatment of moderate-sized renal stones as an alternative to SWL and RIRS failures and also may be considered even primarily.
meta-analysis	UIN368618	"Improvement of Continence Rate with Pelvic Floor Muscle Training Post-Prostatectomy: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Improvement of Continence Rate with Pelvic Floor Muscle Training Post-Prostatectomy: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials Objective: The aim of this meta-analysis was to evaluate the evidence of the effect of pelvic floor muscle training on urinary incontinence after radical prostatectomy. Methods: A bibliographic search was conducted in four databases. Studies were grouped according to the intervention program (muscle training versus control and individual home-based versus physiotherapist-guided muscle training). Results: Eight studies were selected for meta-analysis after satisfying the selection criteria. The data show that pelvic floor muscle training improves continence rate in the short (RR = 2.16; p &lt; 0.001), medium (RR = 1.45; p = 0.001) and long term (RR = 1.23; p = 0.019) after surgery. The number of randomized controlled trials and the heterogeneity in the study population and type of pelvic floor muscle training were the main limitations. Conclusion: Programs including at least three sets of 10 repetitions of muscle training daily appear to improve continence rate after radical prostatectomy. Our meta-analysis shows that muscle training programs for urinary incontinence provide similar results to those of physiotherapist-guided programs, therefore being more cost- effective."
meta-analysis	UIN369216	Ultrasonographic versus Fluoroscopic Access for Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy: A Meta-Analysis Ultrasonographic versus Fluoroscopic Access for Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy: A Meta-Analysis Objective: To assess the safety and efficacy of ultrasonographic vs. fluoroscopic access for percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL). Methods: Medline (PubMed), Embase, Ovid, Cochrane, and the Chinese Biomedical Literature databases were searched to identify clinically controlled trials (CCTs) and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared ultrasonographic access with fluoroscopic access for PCNL. RevMan 5.1 software and Stat Manager V4.1 software were used for the meta-analysis. Results: Five RCTs and nine CCTs were included in our study, which contained a total of 3,019 patients. Of these, 1,574 (52%) had undergone ultrasonographic access, and 1,445 (48%) had undergone fluoroscopic access. The pooled results revealed that the ultrasonographic access patients had shorter duration of access (min) by 2.56 min (weighted mean difference (WMD) = −2.56, 95% confidence interval (CI): −4.40 to −0.72, p = 0.006). There was a higher stone-free rate in the ultrasonographic access group (odds ratio (OR) = 1.26, 95% CI: 1.02-1.55, p = 0.03), as well as a lower rate of operative complications (OR = 0.72, 95% CI: 0.56-0.93, p = 0.01), reduced intraoperative blood loss (ml) (WMD = −14.55 ml, 95% CI: −27.65 to −1.46, p = 0.03), and a lower rate of blood transfusion requirement (OR = 0.39, 95% CI: 0.24-0.63, p = 0.0001). Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were also performed. Conclusion: Except for no radiation exposure, our meta-analysis revealed that ultrasonographic access had many advantages, such as a shorter access time, reduced intraoperative blood loss, a lower rate of operative complications, a lower rate of blood transfusion, and a higher stone-free rate. Because of these significant advantages, we recommend the use of ultrasonographic access for PCNL.
research-article	UIN370164	"High Expression of Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Is Associated with Improved Prognosis High Expression of Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Is Associated with Improved Prognosis Introduction: In this study we analyzed major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) expression as a potential prognostic immune marker for patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). Patients and Methods: 34 patients with localized ccRCC (pT1-pT3) who had undergone nephrectomy and had at least 4 years of clinical follow-up data were included in the study. Immunohistochemical staining for MHCI was performed on tumor sections. An automated image analysis algorithm was applied to representative tumor areas to quantitate the proportion of stained pixels (positivity score = positive pixels/total pixels) on scanned digital slides. Results: At the end of the study, the patients who were alive had increased MHCI expression (mean positivity score 0.80) compared to those who died of the disease (mean positivity score 0.53; p &lt; 0.0001, t test). Patients who were alive with recurrence had increased MHCI expression (positivity score 0.81) compared to those who succumbed to their disease recurrence (positivity score 0.53; p &lt; 0.0001, t test). Survival was higher among patients with high MHCI expression compared to patients with low MHCI expression (p &lt; 0.0001, Mantel-Cox). Conclusions: With an automated high-throughput image analysis technique, this study shows that higher tumor cell MHCI expression promotes increased survival and reduced incidence of recurrence compared to patients with lower tumor cell MHCI expression."
systematic-review	UIN371893	Salvage Radical Prostatectomy after External Beam Radiation Therapy: A Systematic Review of Current Approaches Salvage Radical Prostatectomy after External Beam Radiation Therapy: A Systematic Review of Current Approaches Background: Radical external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) is a standard treatment for prostate cancer patients. Despite this, the rate of intraprostatic relapses after primary EBRT is still not negligible. There is no consensus on the most appropriate management of these patients after EBRT failure. For these patients, local salvage therapy such as radical prostatectomy, cryotherapy, and brachytherapy may be indicated. Objective: The objectives of this review were to analyze the eligibility criteria for careful selection of appropriate patients and to evaluate the oncological results and complications for each method. Methods: A review of the literature was performed to identify studies of local salvage therapy for patients who had failed primary EBRT for localized prostate cancer. Results: Most studies demonstrated that local salvage therapy after EBRT may provide long-term local control in appropriately selected patients, although toxicity is often significant. Conclusions: Our results suggest that for localized prostate cancer recurrence after EBRT, the selection of a local treatment modality should be made on a patient-by-patient basis. An improvement in selection criteria and an integrated definition of biochemical failure for all salvage methods are required to determine which provides the best oncological outcome and least comorbidity.
research-article	UIN371894	"A Randomized, Double-Blind, Parallel-Group, Multicenter Clinical Study of Escherichia coli-Lyophilized Lysate for the Prophylaxis of Recurrent Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections A Randomized, Double-Blind, Parallel-Group, Multicenter Clinical Study of Escherichia coli-Lyophilized Lysate for the Prophylaxis of Recurrent Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Background: One strategy for managing recurrent uncomplicated urinary tract infections (UTIs) is prevention. This study tested OM-89S, a lyophilized lysate of 18 Escherichia coli strains manufactured using a modified lytic process. Methods: This was a randomized, double-blind trial in 451 female subjects with recurrent uncomplicated UTIs. Period 1 of the study tested 6 mg of OM-89S versus placebo (3 months), plus a 3-month observation. Period 2 of the study was a 3-month treatment period (each monthly cycle consisted of 6 mg of OM-89S daily for 10 days and placebo for 20 days, vs. 50 mg nitrofurantoin daily for 30 days), plus a 3-month observation. Results: There was no difference in the mean rate of UTI episodes between the OM-89S (0.66 ± 0.93) and placebo groups (0.63 ± 0.86; p = 0.95) in period 1. Similar findings were obtained for period 2. OM-89S was well-tolerated. Conclusions: Our results did not demonstrate a preventive effect of OM-89S compared to placebo. This may be due to the low number of UTIs that occurred during the study, the high number of protocol violations, and/or the modified manufacturing process used for OM-89S."
systematic-review	UIN371895	Is There a Role for Active Surveillance in Low-Risk Prostate Cancer? Is There a Role for Active Surveillance in Low-Risk Prostate Cancer? Background: Active surveillance (AS) represents an expectant treatment strategy for clinically localized prostate cancer (PCa) with low-risk features. Objective: The actual management as well as the pros and cons of AS were evaluated. Methods: A systematic review of the recent literature was performed using the Medline databases. Conclusions: Since a substantial number of men die with rather than from PCa, there is a considerable role for AS in carefully selected men. AS may also represent a strategy to reduce the burden of overtreatment rooted in intensified PSA testing. Facing the imprecision of risk stratification based on transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy, accurate clinical staging represents a major medical challenge. Counseling and care require empathy as well as a profound understanding of the biology and the natural history of PCa.
meta-analysis	UIN381882	"Should We Use Antibiotic Prophylaxis for Flexible Cystoscopy? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Should We Use Antibiotic Prophylaxis for Flexible Cystoscopy? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Introduction: The role of antibiotic prophylaxis for routine flexible cystoscopy (FC) is not clear due to the varying practices of individual clinicians. There are no formal guidelines, and this may be due to a lack of formal summary of the data. Methods: A systematic review was conducted in April 2014 including all randomised control trials on prophylactic antibiotic use for FC. The main outcome measures were confirmed bacteriuria on mid-stream urine (MSU), asymptomatic bacteriuria and symptomatic bacteriuria. A meta-analysis was conducted with difference between groups expressed as an odds ratio (OR) and control group risk. Results: 5,107 patients were included, 2,173 in placebo and 2,934 in the antibiotic group. The OR for all three outcomes favoured the antibiotic group; the risk of developing symptomatic bacteriuria was 0.06 times more likely in the control group (OR 0.34), 0.054 (OR 0.40) for developing asymptomatic bacteriuria and 0.109 for confirming bacteriuria on MSU (OR 0.36). The number needed to treat (NNT) was 15 (13-19) for MSU positive bacteriuria; 32 (27-42) for symptomatic bacteriuria and 26 (23-33) for asymptomatic bacteriuria. Conclusions: Antibiotic prophylaxis did confer a reduction in cases of symptomatic and asymptomatic bacteriuria but the NNT were high. Therefore, the authors cannot advocate the use of antibiotic prophylaxis for routine FC procedures."
meta-analysis	UIN435861	"Laparoscopic versus Robotic-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy for the Treatment of Localised Prostate Cancer: A Systematic Review Laparoscopic versus Robotic-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy for the Treatment of Localised Prostate Cancer: A Systematic Review Background: Prostate cancer is a prominent form of cancer diagnosed in men living in developed countries, for which radical prostatectomy is a common frontline treatment. The aim of this systematic review was to determine whether robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (RALP) is more effective in the treatment of localised prostate cancer, compared to laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (LRP). Methods: An electronic search of Medline, Scopus, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Central) was performed up until December 2014. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that offered a direct comparison of laparoscopic and robotic techniques were eligible for inclusion in this review. Results: A total of 93 articles were identified through the literature search, of which 2 were included in this review. Meta-analysis of 2 studies identified a significantly higher rate of return of erectile function in the RALP group (relative risk (RR) 1.51; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.19, 1.92). A similar effect was observed with return to continence function (RR 1.14; 95% CI 1.04, 1.24). Conclusions: This systematic review offers the first evaluation of evidence from RCTs with respect to the effectiveness of RALP and LRP in the treatment of localised prostate cancer. Preliminary results suggest that RALP was more efficient at preserving the erectile function and continence in comparison to LRP."
case-report	UIN437442	Bladder Leiomyosarcoma 25 Years after Treatment with Cyclophosphamide in Patient with History of Retinoblastoma Bladder Leiomyosarcoma 25 Years after Treatment with Cyclophosphamide in Patient with History of Retinoblastoma The objective of this case report is to present a rare bladder tumour in a young patient 25 years after the treatment with cyclophosphamide because of a neuroblastoma of the right eye. The first symptom of the tumour was macroscopic haematuria with dysuria and pollakiuria. The final diagnosis was dictaminated by the pathologist and the best treatment option was radical cystoprostatectomy. Leiomyosarcoma was presented in a 26-year-old patient like the third different tumour, the second was an esphenoidal meningioma. At the 8th year of follow-up after the radical surgery, the patient is free of bladder disease. Bladder leiomyosarcoma is a rare tumour of the bladder and its early diagnosis and treatment are mandatory for best prognosis.
meta-analysis	UIN439140	"Supine versus Prone Position during Extracorporeal Shockwave Lithotripsy for Treating Distal Ureteral Calculi: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Supine versus Prone Position during Extracorporeal Shockwave Lithotripsy for Treating Distal Ureteral Calculi: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Purpose: We aimed at evaluating the efficacy of extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (SWL) for treating distal ureteral calculi performed in supine vs. prone position. Materials and Methods: Eligible studies were identified by 2 reviewers using PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science databases. Outcomes included stone-free rate after the first and the final SWL session, the mean number of shocks per SWL session, the mean percentage of power used in the first SWL session, and the mean number of SWL sessions per patient. Results: Pooled data among the 647 included patients showed that supine SWL was associated with a significantly higher stone-free rate than prone SWL. This difference was consistent for both the first SWL session (OR 4.17; 95% CI 2.53-6.87; p &lt; 0.00001) and the final session (OR 3.02; 95% CI 1.96-4.67; p &lt; 0.00001). No differences in the mean number of shocks per SWL session, the mean percentage of power used in the first SWL session, and the mean number of SWL sessions per patient were observed between the positions. SWL complications were infrequent and the incidence was insufficient for further analysis. Conclusion: SWL is safe and effective for the management of distal ureteral calculi, and supine SWL is more effective than prone SWL for achieving a stone-free status."
case-report	UIN441955	Acute Focal Bacterial Nephritis Can Lead to Unnecessary Invasive Procedures: A Report of Three Cases Acute Focal Bacterial Nephritis Can Lead to Unnecessary Invasive Procedures: A Report of Three Cases Acute focal bacterial nephritis (AFBN) is a rarely diagnosed interstitial bacterial infection of the kidney. Due to the non-specific clinical presentation of this entity, correct diagnosis can be challenging. In this work, we present three cases of AFBN aiming to stress the diversity of clinical presentation associated with the disease and the fact that patients with AFBN are at risk of undergoing unnecessary invasive procedures. The employment of invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedures on the management of AFBN should be limited, as the majority of patients respond well to conservative therapy.
research-article	UIN444197	"Role of Multi-Parametric Magnetic Resonance Image and PIRADS Score in Patients with Prostate Cancer Eligible for Active Surveillance According PRIAS Criteria Role of Multi-Parametric Magnetic Resonance Image and PIRADS Score in Patients with Prostate Cancer Eligible for Active Surveillance According PRIAS Criteria Objective: To evaluate the prognostic role of multiparametric-MRI (mp-MRI) in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer (PCa) eligible for active surveillance (AS) according to Prostate Cancer Research International: Active Surveillance (PRIAS) criteria. Patients and Methods: We analyzed prospectively 73 patients with PCa and PRIAS criteria for low-risk disease. All patients fitted criteria for AS but optioned surgery treatment. The mp-MRI was performed to define the likelihood of malignancy according to the Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PIRADS) score (1-5). Patients were divided in 2 groups: non-visible cancer lesion on MRI (PIRADS 2-3) and visible cancer (PIRADS 4-5). Preoperative clinical data (age, body mass index, prostate specific antigen (PSA) level, positive core biopsy, PSA density (PSAD)) and definitive pathological findings (staging, upgrading, unfavorable disease) were compared between groups. PIRADS score was correlated with pathological data to evaluate the prognostic role of mp-MRI; and preoperative variables and definitive pathology (upgrading, upstaging and unfavorable disease) were also assessed. Results: PSAD (p = 0.04) and pathological stage (p = 0.03) were significantly associated with the presence of visible disease. Visible disease was significantly associated with upstaging (p = 0.03). Correlation between PIRADS 5 and unfavorable disease was statistically significant (p = 0.02). The mp-MRI had adequate sensibility in detecting upstaging (92%), intermediate for upgrading (76%) and unfavorable disease (76%). Negative predictive value was higher for upstaging than for upgrading or unfavorable disease (96 vs. 68% and 64%). Multivariate logistic regression revealed that PIRADS 5 was a significant predictor of upstaging (p = 0.05, OR 16.12) and unfavorable disease (p = 0.01, OR 6.53). Conclusion: A visible lesion on mp-MRI strongly predicts significant PCa in patients eligible for AS according to PRIAS criteria, based on upstaging and unfavorable disease. We believe that mp-MRI is an important tool and should be added to clinical selection criteria for AS."
meta-analysis	UIN444884	"Penile Fracture: A Meta-Analysis Penile Fracture: A Meta-Analysis Objectives: To review the causes and management of penile fracture and to compare between surgical and conservative management as well as immediate and delayed interventions in terms of overall and specific complications. Methods: A search of all reported literature was conducted for all articles reporting on the management and outcomes of penile fractures. Full texts of relevant articles were obtained and screened according to the inclusion criteria. Outcomes measures were numbers of patients receiving surgical or conservative management, aetiology of fracture, length of admission, complications as well as the specifics of diagnostic approaches and operative management. Data was collated and where possible meta-analysed using Revman software. Results: A total of 58 relevant studies involving 3,213 patients demonstrated that intercourse accounts for only 48% of cases with masturbation and forced flexion accounting for 39%. Meta-analysis shows that surgical intervention was associated with significantly fewer complications vs. conservative management (p &lt; 0.000001). Surgical intervention results in significantly less erectile dysfunction (ED), curvature and painful erection than conservative management. There was no significant difference in the number of patients developing plaques/nodules (p = 0.94). Meta-analysis shows that overall early surgery is preferable to delayed surgery but that rates of ED are not significantly different. Discussion: Early surgical intervention is associated with significantly fewer complications than conservative management or delayed surgery. The combined outcome of rapid diagnosis by history and clinical examination and swift surgical intervention is key for reconstruction with minimal long-term complications."
research-article	UIN445254	"Artificial Urinary Sphincters for Treatment of Urinary Incontinence in Elderly Males Artificial Urinary Sphincters for Treatment of Urinary Incontinence in Elderly Males Introduction: We sought to examine the role of advanced age (defined as &gt;70 years), impaired cognitive function, and decreased manual dexterity in the rates of re-operation (revision or replacement) of artificial urinary sphincters (AUS). Methods: From 1988 to 2012, 213 men underwent virgin AUS placements. Failure was defined as a revision performed for stress incontinence and replacement/exploration performed for urethral erosion/infection or mechanical failure. Kaplan-Meier curves were constructed to compare failure rates with age and Cox proportional hazard models were used to test associations. Results: Advanced age was not associated with overall failure (p = 0.48), erosion/infection failure (p = 0.65), recurrent/persistent incontinence failure (p = 0.08), or mechanical failure (p = 0.36). Controlling for age, patients with cognitive dysfunction or decreased manual dexterity showed a higher rate of overall failure (p = 0.01). Conclusions: AUS placement is an excellent option to treat stress urinary incontinence in elderly men with intact cognition and good manual dexterity. AUS placement should be performed with caution in patients with impaired cognitive function or decreased manual dexterity, and additional effort should be made to identify these conditions both before and after surgery."
systematic-review	UIN446323	Robot Assisted Radical Prostatectomy in Kidney Transplant Recipients. Our Clinical Experience and a Systematic Review Robot Assisted Radical Prostatectomy in Kidney Transplant Recipients. Our Clinical Experience and a Systematic Review Introduction: Radical prostatectomy is a more skillful procedure in kidney graft recipients. Robotic surgery can provide a useful minimally invasive tool. Objectives: The study aims to evaluate the robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) in kidney transplant recipients, describing intra/postoperative complications, renal and oncological outcomes. Methods: This is a retrospective study conducted in a single institution of 84 RALP. Four of them were kidney transplant recipients. Side of the renal graft, clinical stage, intra/postoperative events, operating time, creatinine levels before/after intervention and oncologic follow-up were recorded. A systematic review of the literature was performed. Results: Aged 61.25 ± 7.76 years, interval between renal transplantation and RALP: 10 ± 3.16 years. Mean prostate specific antigen: 7.1 ± 2.8 ng/ml, 2 patients were cT1c and 2 cT2a. Preoperative biopsies: Gleason score 3 + 3 in 3 patients, 3 + 4 in 1 patient. Charlson comorbidity index mean was 4.82 ± 0.82. No intra/postoperative events were reported. Mean operating time: 196 ± 20.8 min. Positive surgical margins: 2/4 patients. Pathological analysis: Gleason 3 + 4 in 2 patients and Gleason 3 + 3 in the others 2. A patient developed a bladder neck sclerosis. No differences between pre/postoperative creatinine. Three patients are free of biochemical recurrence and 1 patient required adjuvant radiotherapy. Conclusion: RALP in renal transplant recipients is a safe and feasible technique for localized prostate cancer. No difference in oncological outcomes and no impairments on renal function were found.
meta-analysis	UIN447306	The Effect of Local Anesthetic Infiltration Around Nephrostomy Tract on Postoperative Pain Control after Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Effect of Local Anesthetic Infiltration Around Nephrostomy Tract on Postoperative Pain Control after Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: To assess the safety and efficacy of local anesthetic infiltration around nephrostomy tract on postoperative pain control after percutaneous nephrolithotomy. Methods: This systematic review was performed based on randomized clinic trials about local anesthetic infiltration around nephrostomy tract on postoperative pain control. The weighted mean difference (WMD), with their corresponding 95% CI, was calculated to compare continuous variables. Results: Our results showed that the consumption of analgesic was less in the experimental group than in the control group (WMD -25.32, 95% CI -48.09 to -2.55, p = 0.003). There was no significant difference between the mean Visual Analog Scale (VAS) in the experimental group than the control group after 6 h while significantly lower after 24 h. The time of first analgesic demand was significantly longer in the experimental group (WMD 2.19, 95% CI 0.98-3.41). There was no significant difference between 2 groups in terms of operation time, hemoglobin (Hb) alteration, and hospital stay. Conclusion: Local anesthetic infiltration around nephrostomy tract had similar efficacy in the control group in terms of operation time, Hb alteration, and hospital stay, but offers some potential advantages in terms of analgesia requirement, the time of first analgesic demand, and VAS-24 h. However, good quality and large studies with long-term follow-up are warranted for further research.
meta-analysis	UIN448290	"Effectiveness of Phosphodiesterase 5 Inhibitors in the Treatment of Erectile Dysfunction in Patients with Spinal Cord Trauma: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effectiveness of Phosphodiesterase 5 Inhibitors in the Treatment of Erectile Dysfunction in Patients with Spinal Cord Trauma: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objective: To determine the effectiveness of the Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) Inhibitors for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in patients with spinal trauma. Methods: A systematic review and meta-analysis comparing PDE5 inhibitors versus placebo were carried out for clinical trials conducted between 1980 and 2014 that evaluated male patients older than 18 years, diagnosed with spinal cord trauma and erectile dysfunction. We designed a search strategy for Medline, CENTRAL, EMBASE and other electronic sources. Two investigators independently and blindly screened the studies for inclusion. A random effect meta-analysis was performed. Results: Six studies involving 963 patients were included. Male patients over 18 years with ED attributable or subsequent to traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) were included from these studies. In 4 of these studies, patients were randomized to the treatment group receiving sildenafil and the comparison group was placebo. Out of the remaining 2 trials, one compared tadalafil against the placebo and the other vardenafil versus placebo. The improvement on SCIs with PDE5 inhibitors was found to be large (standardized mean difference 0.71; 95% CI 0.39-1.03), with a high heterogeneity (I2 = 74.4%). Conclusions: PDE5 inhibitors are effective for the treatment of erectile dysfunction secondary to SCI."
case-report	UIN448593	"Is the Ellipsoid Formula the New Standard for 3-Tesla MRI Prostate Volume Calculation without Endorectal Coil? Is the Ellipsoid Formula the New Standard for 3-Tesla MRI Prostate Volume Calculation without Endorectal Coil? Prostate volume in multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) is of clinical importance. For 3-Tesla mpMRI without endorectal coil, there is no distinctive standard for volume calculation. We tested the accuracy of the ellipsoid formula with planimetric volume measurements as reference and investigated the correlation of gland volume and cancer detection rate on MRI/ultrasound (MRI/US) fusion-guided biopsy. One hundred forty-three patients with findings on 3-Tesla mpMRI suspicious of cancer and subsequent MRI/US fusion-guided targeted biopsy and additional systematic biopsy were analyzed. T2-weighted images were used for measuring the prostate diameters and for planimetric volume measurement by a segmentation software. Planimetric and calculated prostate volumes were compared with clinical data. The median prostate volume was 48.1 ml (interquartile range (IQR) 36.9-62.1 ml). Volume calculated by the ellipsoid formula showed a strong concordance with planimetric volume, with a tendency to underestimate prostate volume (median volume 43.1 ml (IQR 31.2-58.8 ml); r = 0.903, p &lt; 0.001). There was a moderate, significant inverse correlation of prostate volume to a positive biopsy result (r = -0.24, p = 0.004). The ellipsoid formula gives sufficient approximation of prostate volume on 3-Tesla mpMRI without endorectal coil. It allows a fast, valid volume calculation in prostate MRI datasets."
meta-analysis	UIN448692	"Comparison of Holmium: YAG Laser and Pneumatic Lithotripsy in the Treatment of Ureteral Stones: An Update Meta-Analysis Comparison of Holmium: YAG Laser and Pneumatic Lithotripsy in the Treatment of Ureteral Stones: An Update Meta-Analysis Purpose: Holmium YAG laser lithotripsy (LL) and pneumatic lithotripsy (PL) are the most commonly used procedures in the treatment of ureteral calculi. In a previous meta-analysis examining the treatment effect of the 2 modalities, the authors highlighted the need for large sample size and high quality trials to provide more uncovered outcome. Recently, several randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the same issue with larger patient number and more complicated data have been published. Therefore, we conducted this meta-analysis to update and synthesize evidence on the efficacy and safety of the 2 procedures in the treatment of ureteral calculi. Methods: The relevant studies were identified by searching Medline, EMBASE and Cochrane Library Database from January 1990 to November 2015. RCTs assessing the efficacy and safety of Holmium YAG laser and PL for ureteral stones were included. Two reviewers independently screened studies and extracted data. Results: A total of 8 studies were identified including 1,555 patients. Compared with PL, Holmium YAG LL significantly reduced the mean operative time (weighted mean difference = -11.52, 95% CI -17.06 to -5.99, p &lt; 0.0001) and increased the early stone-free rate (OR 2.69, 95% CI 1.91-3.78, p &lt; 0.00001) and the delayed stone-free rate (OR 2.12, 95% CI 1.40-3.21, p = 0.0004). However, a higher postoperative ureteral stricture rate (OR 3.38, 95% CI 1.56-7.31, p = 0.002) was observed in LL group over PL group. There was no statistical significance in the ureteral perforation rate (OR 1.19, 95% CI 0.65-2.16, p = 0.58), the stone migration rate (OR 0.64, 95% CI 0.41-1.00, p = 0.05), the postoperative gross hematuria rate (OR 0.71, 95% CI 0.40-1.25, p = 0.23) and the postoperative fever rate (OR 0.73, 95% CI 0.50-1.09, p = 0.12). Conclusions: Our data reconfirmed that Holmium LL for ureteral stones can achieve shorter mean operative time, better early and delayed stone-free rate with larger sample size and more high quality studies. And further trials are unlikely to considerably alter this conclusion. In terms of higher risk of postoperative ureteral stricture in LL group over PL group observed in our review, more high quality, multicenter RCTs with long-term follow-up outcome are warranted to better assess this issue."
systematic-review	UIN449256	Closing the Gender Gap: Can We Improve Bladder Cancer Survival in Women? - A Systematic Review of Diagnosis, Treatment and Outcomes Closing the Gender Gap: Can We Improve Bladder Cancer Survival in Women? - A Systematic Review of Diagnosis, Treatment and Outcomes Introduction: Despite recent attention, there are no gender specific guidelines to address the disparity in bladder cancer survival between the sexes. The focus of this review was to identify areas of clinical practice that may influence bladder cancer outcomes and to provide evidence-based recommendations to improve bladder cancer survival in women. Method: A systematic search of MEDLINE was conducted to identify studies related to referral, diagnosis, treatment and outcomes of patients with bladder cancer with particular reference to gender differences. Results: Patients' knowledge of key signs and symptoms of bladder cancer is poor. There is evidence that there is a gender difference in referral patterns both at patient and primary care level. The presence of cystits, in particular, delays referral. Treatment and surveillance of high-risk non-muscle invasive cancers is variable and non-urothelial bladder cancer, which has higher incidence in women is more likely to be treated non-operatively than urothelial bladder cancer. Conclusion: We have offered recommendations to improve patient education and streamline referrals and suggested considerations for treatment of high-risk cancers to help improve survival in female bladder cancer patients.
meta-analysis	UIN449390	The Efficacy of Antimuscarinics Alone or in Combination with Alpha-Blockers for the Treatment of Ureteral Stent-Related Symptoms: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Efficacy of Antimuscarinics Alone or in Combination with Alpha-Blockers for the Treatment of Ureteral Stent-Related Symptoms: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Introduction and Aim: The purpose of this meta-analysis was to evaluate the efficacy of antimuscarinics alone or in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of ureteral stent-related symptoms. Methods: The databases MEDLINE, EMBASE, PubMed, the Cochrane Controlled Trial Register of Controlled Trials from 2000 to February 2016 were searched to identify randomized controlled trials that referred to the use of a combination of antimuscarinics and alpha-blockers for the treatment of ureteral stent-related symptoms. A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted. Results: Seven publications involving 710 patients were included in the meta-analysis. In the analysis, we found significantly improved total International Prostate Symptom Score, quality of life, body pain and work performance score of the Ureteral Stent Symptom Questionnaire (USSQ) in the combination group compared with antimuscarinics alone (p = 0.00001, p = 0.00001, p = 0.00001 and p = 0.004, respectively). Antimuscarinics alone versus the control group showed significant improvement in urinary symptom, body pain and general health score of USSQ (p = 0.002, p = 0.00001 and p = 0.003, respectively). Conclusions: Our meta-analysis shows the beneficial effect of antimuscarinics alone in reducing stent-related symptoms. The combined use of antimuscarinics and alpha-blockers results in additive favorable effects in patients with ureteral stent-related symptoms compared with antimuscarinics monotherapy. The alpha-blockers may enhance the efficacy of the antimuscarinics, which is beneficial for the treatment of ureteral stent-related symptoms.
meta-analysis	UIN452610	Comparison of YAG Laser Lithotripsy and Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripsy in Treatment of Ureteral Calculi: A Meta-Analysis Comparison of YAG Laser Lithotripsy and Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripsy in Treatment of Ureteral Calculi: A Meta-Analysis Objective: To evaluate the clinical efficiency and safety of ureteroscopy lithotripsy (URSL) with holmium laser technology and extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) on ureteral calculi using systematic reviews. Methods: Randomized controlled trials and prospective controlled trials accorded with inclusion among PubMed Database, EmBase Database, Cochrane Library and China National Knowledge Infrastructure were collected. Review Manager 5.0 was adopted to estimate the effects of the results among selected articles. Forest plots, sensitivity analysis and bias analysis for the articles included were also conducted. Pooled estimate of risk ratios and standard mean difference (SMD) with 95% CIs were used as measures of effect sizes. Results: Finally 1,770 patients were included in the 14 studies, which eventually satisfied the eligibility criteria. The number of patients in URSL group and ESWL group were 885 and 885, respectively. The results of heterogeneity test suggested that complication events (RR 1.12 (95% CI 0.63-2.00), p = 0.70), hospital days (SMD = -0.08 (95% CI -1.14 to 0.98), p = 0.88) and efficiency quotient (RR 1.31 (95% CI 0.96-1.80), p = 0.09) were insignificantly different, while the stone-free rate (RR 1.15 (95% CI 1.06-1.26), p = 0.002) and operation time (SMD = -2.27 (95% CI -3.42 to -1.11), p = 0.0001) between ESWL and URSL were significantly different. Conclusion: Although both URSL and ESWL have its own advantages and drawbacks, URSL is relatively a more efficient and safe method to treat ureteric stones, since it has shorter operation time and a better stone-free rate.
meta-analysis	UIN453669	"A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Effects on Dutasteride Treatment for Reducing Surgical Blood Loss during Transurethral Resection of the Prostate A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Effects on Dutasteride Treatment for Reducing Surgical Blood Loss during Transurethral Resection of the Prostate Objective: This systematic review and meta-analysis were performed to evaluate the efficacy of preoperative dutasteride treatment for reducing surgical blood loss in patients undergoing transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). Methods: A systematic search was performed from the electronic databases including PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library by May 2016. We followed the search strategy based on Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis statement when examining the literature. Identified articles were strictly appraised for quality and relevance. Results: Five randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and 5 retrospective cohort studies involving 1,022 patients with benign prostate hyperplasia were analyzed based on the inclusion criteria. Pooled analysis revealed that preoperative treatment with dutasteride had a significantly smaller decrease in hemoglobin (weighted mean difference [WMD] -0.47, 95% CI -0.70 to -0.24, p &lt; 0.0001) and hematocrit levels (WMD -1.03, 95% CI -1.73 to -0.33, p = 0.004); However, no signi&"
meta-analysis	UIN455162	Effect of Obesity on Outcomes of Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy in Renal Stone Management: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Effect of Obesity on Outcomes of Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy in Renal Stone Management: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) has been widely used to treat renal stones. The application of PCNL in obese patients results in the emergence of a number of challenges. This study compared the effect of obesity on the outcomes of PCNL in kidney stone treatment. Methods: Eligible studies were searched in PubMed, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library databases. Data were analyzed using RevMan statistical software, weighted mean differences, ORs, and 95% CIs were calculated. Results: Seven studies involving 2,720 normal-weight, 1,686 obese, and 286 super-obese individuals were included in this meta-analysis. A pooled analysis of safety revealed that no obvious differences in terms of complication rates after treatment existed between obese and normal-weight individuals (OR 0.97, 95% CI 0.80-1.16, p = 0.73), and between super-obese and normal-weight individuals (OR 0.88, 95% CI 0.61-1.27, p = 0.49). A pooled analysis of effectiveness revealed that no obvious difference in terms of stone-free rate after treatment existed between obese and normal-weight individuals (OR 0.98, 95% CI 0.84-1.15, p = 0.79), and between super-obese and normal-weight individuals (OR 1.20, 95% CI 0.88-1.63, p = 0.25). Moreover, no obvious differences in terms of length of hospital stay after treatment existed between super-obese and normal-weight individuals (95% CI -0.15 to 0.37, p = 0.39). Additionally, no obvious differences in terms of operation time existed between obese and normal-weight individuals (95% CI -3.36 to 1.17, p = 0.34). However, the operation time was longer among super-obese individuals than among normal-weight individuals (95% CI -22.64 to -1.40, p = 0.03), and the length of hospital stay was shorter among obese patients than among normal-weight patients (95% CI 0.04-0.34, p = 0.01). No publication bias was observed in this work. Conclusion: The PCNL performed in normal-weight, obese, and super-obese individuals for kidney stone treatment showed similar outcomes, except that operation time was longer among super-obese individuals and the hospital stay was shorter in obese individuals than in other groups. Thus, PCNL is a safe and efficacious treatment for renal stones in patients of all sizes.
meta-analysis	UIN471773	Ureteroscopic Lithotripsy versus Laparoscopic Ureterolithotomy or Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy in the Management of Large Proximal Ureteral Stones: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Ureteroscopic Lithotripsy versus Laparoscopic Ureterolithotomy or Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy in the Management of Large Proximal Ureteral Stones: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Objectives: To provide a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies comparing ureterolithotripsy (URS) with percutaneous nephrolithotripsy (PCNL) or laparoscopic ureterolithotomy (LU) techniques for the management of large proximal ureteral stones (diameter greater than 10 mm). Methods: A literature search was performed using PubMed, EMBASE, EBSCO, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library to identify suitable studies until November 2016. We used weighted mean difference to measure operative time and hospital stay, OR to measure stone free rate (SFR), and complication rate. Subgroup analyses were assessed for heterogeneity. Results: Fourteen publications strictly met our eligibility criteria of which 7 were randomized control studies (RCTs) and 7 non-RCTs. Meta-analysis of extractable data showed that LU and PCNL had higher SFR than URS. URS led to a similar hospital stay like that of LU. However, it had a shorter operative time and lower complication rate than LU. When we compared URS with PCNL, we found a shorter hospital stay in the URS group. However, there was no significant difference in terms of the operative time and complication rate between URS and PCNL. Conclusion: URS should be considered standard therapy for treating large proximal ureteral stones.
systematic-review	UIN475887	"Robot-Assisted Vesico-Vaginal Fistula Repair: Our Technique and Review of the Literature Robot-Assisted Vesico-Vaginal Fistula Repair: Our Technique and Review of the Literature Objective: Our first objective was to report our experience on robot-assisted vesico-vaginal fistula (VVF) repair after radical surgery for gynecologic malignancies without omental flap interposition using a da Vinci robotic system. The second objective was to critically review the literature in order to analyze surgical solutions used to avoid repair failure. Materials and Methods: Five patients with VVF diagnosed after previous open surgery for gynecologic malignancies referred to our tertiary institutions were selected. After an adequate oncologic follow-up, based on the fistula diameter and conservative management failure, robotic surgery repair was proposed. A bivalve 2-layer suturing technique was carried out without tissue interpositions; omentum was not available secondary to previous surgery including hysterectomy, ovaryectomy, and omentectomy and citoreductive peritoneomectomy. A systematic review of the literature was performed in December 2016 using the PubMed database with the following keywords: robotic, robot-assisted, vesico-vaginal, fistula repair. Results: Median age was 62 years (range 55-71) bearing long-lasting VVF were referred to our divisions. Median fistula diameter was 5 mm (range 3-8 mm). Fistula site was the trigone and identified during cystoscopy near the mid-line, left, and right urether meatus, respectively. The median overall and console operatory time were 250 and 120 min, respectively. Blood loss was insignificant (median 40 mL) and the median length of stay was 7 days without any complication. Ten papers were found fulfilling the mentioned criteria, from which 6 were case reports, single or multiple, accounting for the overall 41 robotic-approach-operated patients. Conclusion: The quality of the dissection and suture associated with efficient urine drainage are in our opinion the key elements of the success of our technique, which can be performed even without omentum or other tissue flap or graft interposition."
meta-analysis	UIN477496	"Efficacy and Safety of Tadalafil Once-a-Day versus Tadalafil On-Demand in Patients with Erectile Dysfunction: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses Efficacy and Safety of Tadalafil Once-a-Day versus Tadalafil On-Demand in Patients with Erectile Dysfunction: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses Introduction: To compare the efficacy and safety between tadalafil once-a-day and tadalafil on-demand dosing regimen in patients with ED. Materials and Methods: A systematic search of Medline, Embase, and Cochrane Library was performed to identify all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared tadalafil used a once-a-day with an on-demand dosing regimen for erectile dysfunction. A secondary hand-search was performed in relevant journals, references, and the grey literature. Meta-analyses were performed using Review Manager version 5.3.0. Results: Six RCTs involving a total of 1,534 patients were included in this review. All studies reported the International Index of Erectile Function-Erectile Function domain score and the results of the meta-analysis showed no difference between the groups. The overall pooled estimated weighted mean differences (WMD) was 0.97 (95% CI -0.37 to 2.32; p = 0.16). Meta-analyses of Sexual Encounter Profile questions 2 and 3 (SEP-2 and SEP-3) showed that the once-a-day dosing regimen was superior to the on-demand regimen with statistical significance. The WMD of SEP-2 and SEP-3 were 10.32 (95% CI 3.16-17.48; p = 0.005) and 11.07 (95% CI 2.57-19.56; p = 0.01), respectively. Both dosing regimens of tadalafil showed similar complication rates. The meta-analyses of adverse events showed no significant differences. Conclusions: The efficacy rates of tadalafil once-a-day and on-demand were similar. No significant difference in safety was found between the 2 dose regimens of tadalafil."
systematic-review	UIN477673	Safety and Efficacy of Intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guérin Immunotherapy in Patients with Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer Presenting with Asymptomatic Bacteriuria: A Systematic Review Safety and Efficacy of Intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guérin Immunotherapy in Patients with Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer Presenting with Asymptomatic Bacteriuria: A Systematic Review Intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) immunotherapy in bladder cancer patients with asymptomatic bacteriuria (ABU) remains a matter of debate. The aim of this systematic review was to present available evidence on the safety and efficacy of BCG immunotherapy in patients with ABU. A literature search within the Medline and the Embase databases was conducted with the following search terms: adverse events, bacteriuria, BCG, bladder cancer, cystitis, infection, pyuria, side effects and urinary tract infection (UTI). Sixteen relevant original articles were identified, including 6 articles directly presenting the safety or efficacy of BCG therapy in patients with ABU. None of them was a randomized controlled trial. Intravesical BCG instillations in patients with ABU were not associated with the increased risk of symptomatic UTI and did not affect negatively the recurrence- or progression-free survival. Routine urine analysis before BCG instillation created increased cost and potentially unnecessary delays in BCG therapy. ABU does not affect negatively the safety and efficacy of intravesical BCG immunotherapy. There is no evidence to support routine screening and treatment of ABU in patients scheduled for intravesical BCG instillations due to bladder cancer. However, this issue was not addressed adequately and needs further research.
meta-analysis	UIN478026	Evaluation of the Efficacy and Safety of Laser versus Cold Knife Urethrotomy in the Management of Patients with Urethral Strictures: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials Evaluation of the Efficacy and Safety of Laser versus Cold Knife Urethrotomy in the Management of Patients with Urethral Strictures: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials Introduction: Urethral strictures generate great morbidity. Two procedures have been described for their management - laser and cold knife techniques - which are still widely used. We aim to assess the safety and efficacy of laser versus cold knife urethrotomy. Materials and Methods: We conducted a systematic search of the literature using MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS and Cochrane databases and gray literature. Primary outcomes were urethral stricture recurrence, time-to-recurrence and complication rate. Secondary outcomes were quality of life and maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax). Data analysis was obtained using Review Manager 5.2. Results: Out of 137 publications, 4 articles were included in the meta-analysis. At 3 months, the recurrence rate was similar in both groups (0.55, 95% CI 0.18-1.66), but at 6 and 12 months, it was significantly lower in the laser urethrotomy group (0.39, 95% CI 0.19-0.81 and 0.44, 95% CI 0.26-0.75). The analysis of Qmax at 6 months post-intervention suggested a greater improvement in the laser urethrotomy group. A qualitative analysis showed that complications in both procedures were minor and infrequent. Conclusions: Laser urethrotomy has a lower recurrence rate at 6 and 12 months compared to cold knife urethrotomy. Complications in both procedures are minor and infrequent. Results should be interpreted cautiously, since they were evaluated only for a short term.
meta-analysis	UIN478789	"The Role of Radical Prostatectomy and Radiotherapy in Treatment of Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis The Role of Radical Prostatectomy and Radiotherapy in Treatment of Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: The role of radical prostatectomy (RP) is still controversial for locally advanced prostate cancer (PC). Radiotherapy (RT) and hormonal therapy (HT) are usually used as a primary treatment. Material and Methods: A systematic online search was conducted according to Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis statement. Eligible publications reporting the overall survival (OS) and/or disease-specific survival (DSS) were included. A total of 14 studies, including 17,869 patients, were considered for analysis. The impact of therapeutic modalities on survival was assessed, with a risk of bias assessment according to the Newcastle Ottawa Scale. Results: For RP, RT, and HT, the mean 10-year OS was 70.7% (95% CI 61.3-80.2), 65.8% (95% CI 48.1-83.3), and 22.6% (95% CI 4.9-40.3; p = 0.001), respectively. The corresponding 10-year DSS was 84.1% (95% CI 75.1-93.2), 89.4% (95% CI 70.1-108.6), and 50.4% (95% CI 31.2-69.6; p = 0.0127), respectively. Among all treatment combinations, RP displayed significant improvement in OS when included in the treatment (Z = 4.01; p &lt; 0.001). Adjuvant RT significantly improved DSS (Z = 2.7; p = 0.007). Combination of RT and HT favored better OS in comparison to monotherapy with RT or HT (Z = 3.61; p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion: Improved outcomes in advanced PC were detected for RP plus adjuvant RT vs. RP alone and RT plus adjuvant HT vs. RT alone with comparable survival results between both regimens. RP with adjuvant RT may present the modality of choice when HT is contraindicated."
case-report	UIN490575	Ureter Complications: A Rare Complication but which Requires the Highest Degree of Management Expertise Ureter Complications: A Rare Complication but which Requires the Highest Degree of Management Expertise Introduction: 0% of all urinary tract injuries are iatrogenic lesions. Although they only occur in &
case-report	UIN493150	Transurethral Enucleation of Bladder Leiomyoma: A Series of Six Cases and Review of the Literature Transurethral Enucleation of Bladder Leiomyoma: A Series of Six Cases and Review of the Literature Objectives: To investigate the feasibility and initial surgical outcomes of transurethral enucleation for 6 patients with bladder leiomyoma. Materials: Six patients (mean age 50.2, range [34–67]) with bladder leiomyoma underwent transurethral enucleation. In each case, the resectoscope was inserted into the bladder. A resecting loop was used to incise the urothelium along the surgical margin of the bladder tumor, and a push was given through the resecting loop to further separate the tumor until it was shelled off the bladder wall. The intact mass was then cut into pieces and flushed out. After the operation, irrigation therapy was given. Results: Surgery was performed successfully in all 6 patients. The mean size of the tumor was 3.9 cm (1.8–6.7 cm). The mean operation time was 60 min (30–100 min). The mean follow-up period was 14.8 months (2–30 months), and no evidence of recurrence was found in all cases. Conclusion: Transurethral enucleation is a safe, reliable, and effective surgical technique for selected patients with well-encapsulated tumors and is well suited for further pathological diagnosis and radical treatment.
case-report	UIN493511	Challenging Diagnosis of a Solitary Retroperitoneal Mass: A Case Report of Castleman’s Disease and Review of the Literature Challenging Diagnosis of a Solitary Retroperitoneal Mass: A Case Report of Castleman’s Disease and Review of the Literature Castleman’s disease (CD) is an uncommon type of lymphoproliferative disorder. Its etiology and prevalence are unclear. The retroperitoneum is a very rare site for presentation of the unicentric variant, where it mimics malignant tumors. A 59-year-old man is referred to the urology outpatient clinic for the study of microhematuria found in a routine analysis. CT scan of the abdomen identified a solid, circumscribed mass, measuring 28 × 30 × 31 mm in the left para-aortic zone, with homogeneous contrast enhancement. Excisional surgery and regional lymphadenectomy were performed via laparoscopy. Postoperative course concurred without incidences. Histological diagnosis confirmed unicentric CD, hyaline-vascular type. CD is a rare entity, and the unicentric type presents as an asymptomatic mass. Retroperitoneum is a rare localization, where initial imaging diagnosis is unclear and surgical resection is the preferred treatment.
case-report	UIN493766	Children with Cryptorchidism Complicated by Testicular Torsion: A Case Series Children with Cryptorchidism Complicated by Testicular Torsion: A Case Series Objective: To investigate the clinical features, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of children with cryptorchidism complicated by testicular torsion. Methods: The clinical data of 6 children with cryptorchidism complicated by testicular torsion admitted to our hospital from December 2000 to December 2016 were analyzed retrospectively. Results: All 6 children were diagnosed with cryptorchidism by surgery, their age was from 12 days up to 11 years, and the average time between onset of symptoms and diagnosis was 20.5 h. Torsion testis was located in the groin area and the rate of left to right was about 2:1. Twist was 600° on average. All children were admitted because of the inconsolable cry, abdominal pain, and the swelling of the groin. Three patients underwent orchidectomy, while the other 3 patients underwent detorsion and cryptorchidopexy. Color Doppler ultrasound examination showed normal testes at 6 months after operation. Only 1 case was diagnosed with cryptorchidism after birth. Conclusions: Cryptorchidism is an emergency in pediatric urology and often leads to a low testicular salvage rate, especially in infants, due to lack of knowledge, delayed diagnosis, and late treatment. Neonatal genital examination is important for the early diagnosis and management of cryptorchidism.
research-article	UIN494259	Neutrophil, Platelets, and Eosinophil to Lymphocyte Ratios Predict Gleason Score Upgrading in Low-Risk Prostate Cancer Patients Neutrophil, Platelets, and Eosinophil to Lymphocyte Ratios Predict Gleason Score Upgrading in Low-Risk Prostate Cancer Patients Background: Several biochemical and clinical markers have been proposed for selecting patients for active surveillance (AS). However, some of these are expensive and not easily accessible. Moreover, currently about 30% of patients on AS harbor aggressive disease. Hence, there is an urgent need for other tools to accurately identify patients with low-risk prostate cancer (PCa). Patients: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 260 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy and were eligible for AS according to the following criteria: clinical stage T2a or less, prostate-specific antigen level &
meta-analysis	UIN495512	"Serum Neuroendocrine Markers Predict Therapy Outcome of Patients with Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Serum Neuroendocrine Markers Predict Therapy Outcome of Patients with Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer: A Meta-Analysis Purpose: To evaluate whether serum neuroendocrine markers could effectively predict treatment outcomes in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Methods: The PubMed, Cochrane Library and Embase databases were sought to identify eligible studies concerning serum neuroendocrine markers and the prognosis of post-treatment mCRPC from inception to April 2018. The association between serum neuroendocrine markers, that is, chromogranin A (CgA) and neurone-specific enolase (NSE), levels and the prognosis of post-treatment mCRPC were summarized using a random-effects model and hazard ratio (HR) with 95% CI Sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess potential bias. Results: A total of 234 participants are included in this meta-analysis (mean age = 71.3 years) from 6 studies. The pooled results show that higher markers’ levels at baseline in patients were associated with unfavorable overall survival (OS; univariate analysis: HR 3.775, 95% CI 1.469–9.698, p = 0.006; multivariate analysis: HR 3.838, 95% CI 1.774–8.304, p = 0.001), and a similar situation was observed in progression-free survival (PFS; univariate analysis: HR 2.785, 95% CI 1.315–5.898, p = 0.007; multivariate analysis: HR 1.266, 95% CI 1.017–1.577, p = 0.035). Estimates of the total effects were generally consistent in the sensitivity analysis. Publication bias was observed when performing the univariate analysis of PFS, and we have the explanation accordingly. Conclusions: The results of this pooled analysis confirm serum neuroendocrine markers could be the effective predictor of treatment outcome in patients with mCRPC. In addition, a combination of CgA and NSE is more valuable to predict worse OS. Further randomized case-control trials are required to validate this relationship."
systematic-review	VIM431031	Update on Sclerosing Cholangitis in Critically Ill Patients Update on Sclerosing Cholangitis in Critically Ill Patients Background: &
systematic-review	VIM438811	Occult and Manifest Colorectal Carcinoma in Ulcerative Colitis: How Does It Influence Surgical Decision Making? Occult and Manifest Colorectal Carcinoma in Ulcerative Colitis: How Does It Influence Surgical Decision Making? Background: The incidence of colorectal cancer (CRC) among patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) is increased compared to the general population. The diagnosis of CRC potentially influences surgical decision making in patients with UC. Methods: This review considers clinical studies, systematic reviews, and guidelines on the surgical therapy of CRC in UC. We searched the bibliographic databases The Cochrane Library and Medline (applying MeSH terms such as ‘Colitis, Ulcerative/surgery', ‘Colorectal Neoplasms', and ‘Proctocolectomy, Restorative') with no restriction on language, date, or country. Search results as well as references of relevant publications were independently screened by both authors of this review. Results: The surgical gold standard for proven CRC in UC is oncological proctocolectomy, if possible preferably as a restorative procedure with formation of an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. Mucosectomy and hand-sewn anastomosis is the preferred option for fashioning the anastomosis in these patients, especially in case of dysplasia or cancer in the rectum, although the available data is not conclusive. In highly selected cases of patients with histologically confirmed sporadic CRC without dysplasia in multiple random biopsies and without relevant inflammation, a conventional limited oncological resection is adequate. If UC patients with rectal cancer require radiotherapy, it should be performed in a neoadjuvant setting because of the high risk of radiation-induced pouch failure. Conclusion: Although restorative proctocolectomy is clearly the gold standard therapy for patients with CRC in UC, surgical decision making has to take into account the various settings and patient factors.
case-report	VIM442115	Ectopic Spleen Tissue - an Underestimated Differential Diagnosis of a Hypervascularised Liver Tumour Ectopic Spleen Tissue - an Underestimated Differential Diagnosis of a Hypervascularised Liver Tumour Background: Patients with liver cirrhosis have an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Implantation metastasis following diagnostic biopsy is a well-known complication. Therefore, primary resection of a hypervascularised tumour suspicious for HCC is often performed with curative intent. Case Report: An exophytically growing mass was diagnosed between liver segments III and IVb by means of ultrasound in a 53-year old male patient with decompensated liver cirrhosis. Computed tomography confirmed a 3.5 cm large hypervascularised tumour with given resectability. Intraoperatively, the tumour appeared like a HCC. Thus, an atypical resection was performed. Histopathology revealed ectopic spleen tissue without any signs of malignancy. As enquiries revealed, the patient had undergone splenectomy after a blunt abdominal trauma 9 years prior to admission. Conclusion: In the present patient, hepatic splenosis in a cirrhotic liver was misinterpreted as HCC. In patients with a history of traumatic rupture of the spleen or splenectomy, splenosis has to be considered as a potential differential diagnosis of a hypervascularised tumour. Specific diagnostics should be performed to rule out splenosis.
systematic-review	VIS445407	"Surveillance of Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Diagnostic Algorithms in Patients with Liver Cirrhosis Surveillance of Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Diagnostic Algorithms in Patients with Liver Cirrhosis Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most deadly complication of all major chronic liver diseases. Since early detection is the most significant determinant of overall survival, intense screening is of major importance. Methods: This overview is based on a systematic review of the available literature on HCC screening and surveillance in the PubMed database. Results: Over the last decades, major etiological risk factors were identified and the population at highest risk for the development of HCC was clearly defined. Screening in these patients has been repeatedly demonstrated to detect early tumor stages and to be cost-effective. Therefore, screening is recommended by all current guidelines and usually comprises a bi-annual ultrasound examination in Western countries. In some Asian countries biomarkers are also used; however, their efficiency for Western HCCs remains to be determined. The detection of lesions &gt;1 cm during routine screening requires subsequent confirmation of HCC. The diagnosis can be accurately established by modern imaging techniques, i.e. computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging, in the majority of patients. In ambiguous cases and if radiological criteria are not met by two imaging techniques, biopsies remain the gold standard for diagnosis. Furthermore, histology is of key importance for the development of new diagnostic and predictive biomarkers. Conclusion: Screening and detection algorithms for patients at risk for HCC are effective and should be rigorously implemented in clinical routine."
systematic-review	VIS446357	Gender Mainstreaming and Transplant Surgery Gender Mainstreaming and Transplant Surgery Background: Gender differences in medicine are gaining in importance. In transplant surgery, not only the patient's gender but also that of the donor play an important role in the outcome of transplantation due to sociocultural and genetic factors. Methods: This review article gives an overview of the latest investigations into gender-related influences in the field of visceral transplantation. For this purpose, a systematic review of the literature was performed. Results: In general, women are less often evaluated for and subjected to transplantation worldwide. Significantly poorer outcome can be observed in women with liver transplantation following hepatitis C cirrhosis. Furthermore, female renal grafts are less favorable in terms of outcome and survival. Gender disparities affect transplant medicine due to subtle gender-specific immunological factors. Sociocultural factors also lead to differences in the clinical treatment of men and women, which may influence overall survival. Conclusion: For a better understanding of gender-specific differences in transplant medicine and a possible improvement in outcome, further research in this field is necessary.
systematic-review	VIS446997	"Morbidity and Mortality Rounds in Liver Transplantation Morbidity and Mortality Rounds in Liver Transplantation Background: Morbidity and mortality conferences (MMCs) provide powerful opportunities for learning, reflection, and improvement. The current literature gives examples of how MMCs can be designed; however, no systematic review of cases and no original data related to liver transplantation are available. Liver transplantation requires a multidisciplinary approach to case identification, presentation, and analysis. Framework structures that guide case investigation are needed to successfully follow up on outcome measures and provide the basis for quality assessment and transparency in transplant programs. Methods: All cases presented at our department's transplant-related MMCs in the years 2014 and 2015 were analyzed. Patient data were collected from our electronic database and meeting minutes. Cases were summarized according to type of transplantation. Liver-related transplant cases were analyzed for in-house deaths and time from death until presentation at an MMC. A literature review was performed, and our center's MMC design was compared with the literature available on conducting MMCs and improving patient safety and quality of care. Results: Within 2 years, 15 MMCs were held at our department. 38 cases were discussed of which 25 were liver transplant-related. Most cases were in-house postoperative deaths, mainly due to sepsis or primary non-function. We provide a summary of recommendations for conducting MMCs based on conferences held in our department combined with the literature. Conclusion: We present our experience with MMCs held over the past 24 months in consideration of guidelines on MMCs provided in the literature. As there is little conformity to known models for analyzing medical incidents, models for best practice in conduction MMCs are urgently needed."
systematic-review	VIS452921	Surgical Therapy of Cholangiocarcinoma Surgical Therapy of Cholangiocarcinoma Background: The majority of patients with cholangiocarcinoma present with advanced disease that is often challenging to diagnose and to treat. The optimal preoperative evaluation requires a coordinated multidisciplinary approach. Surgical resection is the mainstay of therapy. Methods: This systematic review delineates surgical treatment strategies for cholangiocarcinoma in general as well as special considerations concerning the particular tumor localization. A literature search (see keywords) was conducted using PubMed and publications between 1990 and 2016 regarding resectable and advanced cholangiocarcinoma were reviewed. Selected studies were utilized based on their significance and innovation. Results: The type and extent of resection performed depends on the location of the cholangiocarcinoma within the liver or biliary tree and the extent of local tumor invasion. The common surgical strategy contains: (i) for intrahepatic tumors: tailored partial hepatectomy combined with extended hilar, suprapancreatic, celiac axis lymphadenectomy, (ii) for hilar tumors: complete resection of the extrahepatic biliary tree combined with extended hepatectomy inclusive of segment I, resection of portal vein bifurcation, and systematic N1/N2 lymphadenectomy, and (iii) for distal tumors: en bloc pancreatoduodenectomy combined with complete resection of the extrahepatic bile duct below the hepatic confluence and systematic N1/N2 lymphadenectomy. Pathologic confirmation is not required prior to resection. Preoperative biliary drainage and remnant liver volume augmentation are necessary in selected patients with intrahepatic or hilar cholangiocarcinoma considered for extensive liver resection. Conclusion: Cure for cholangiocarcinoma requires complete surgical resection with histologically negative margins. R0 resection provides a satisfactory long-term outcome in patients with lymph node-negative stage. Neoadjuvant treatment followed by liver transplantation provides long-term survival in highly selected cases with localized, unresectable, lymph node-negative hilar cholangiocarcinoma.
review-article	VIS453009	"Imaging of Cholangiocarcinoma Imaging of Cholangiocarcinoma Cholangiocarcinoma (CC) is the second most common primary hepatobiliary tumour, and it is increasing in incidence. Imaging characteristics, behaviour, and therapeutic strategies in CC differ significantly, depending on the morphology and location of the tumour. In cross-sectional imaging, CCs can be classified according to the growth pattern (mass-forming, periductal infiltrating, intraductal) and the location (intrahepatic, perihilar, extrahepatic/distal). The prognosis of CC is unfavourable and surgical resection is the only curative treatment option; thus, early diagnosis (also in recurrent disease) and accurate staging including the evaluation of lymph node involvement and vascular infiltration is crucial. However, the diagnostic evaluation of CC is challenging due to the heterogeneous nature of the tumour. Diagnostic modalities used in the imaging of CC include transabdominal ultrasound, endosonography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging with cholangiopancreatography, and hybrid imaging such as positron emission tomography/computed tomography. In this review, the potential of cross-sectional imaging modalities in primary staging, treatment monitoring, and detection of recurrent disease will be discussed."
review-article	VIS453010	"Locoregional Therapies of Cholangiocarcinoma Locoregional Therapies of Cholangiocarcinoma Background: Cholangiocarcinoma (CC) is the second most primary liver malignancy with increasing incidence in Western countries. Currently, surgical R0 resection is regarded as the only potentially curative treatment. The results of systemic chemotherapy and best supportive care (BSC) in patients with metastatic disease are often disappointing in regard to toxicity, oncologic efficacy, and overall survival. In current practice, the use of different locoregional therapies is increasingly more accepted. Methods: A review of the literature on locoregional therapies for intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) was undertaken. Results: There are no prospective randomized controlled trials. For localized ICC, either primary or recurrent, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is by far the most commonly used thermal ablation modality. Thereby, a systematic review and meta-analysis reports major complication in 3.8% as well as 1-, 3-, and 5-year overall survival rates of 82, 47, and 24%, respectively. In selected patients (e.g. with a tumor diameter of ≤3 cm), oncologic efficacy and survival after RFA are comparable with surgical resection. For diffuse ICC, different transarterial therapies, either chemotherapy-based (hepatic artery infusion (HAI), transarterial chemoembolization (TACE)) or radiotherapy-based (transarterial radioembolization (TARE)), show extremely promising results. With regard to controlled trials (transarterial therapy versus systemic chemotherapy, BSC or no treatment), tumor control is virtually always better for transarterial therapies and very often accompanied by a dramatic survival benefit and improvement of quality of life. Of note, the latter is the case not only for patients without extrahepatic metastatic disease but also for those with liver-dominant extrahepatic metastatic disease. There are other locoregional therapies such as microwave ablation, irreversible electroporation, and chemosaturation; however, the current data support their use only in controlled trials or as last-line therapy. Conclusion: Dedicated locoregional therapies are commonly used for primary and recurrent ICC as well as liver-only and liver-dominant extrahepatic metastatic disease. Currently, the best evidence and most promising results are available for RFA, HAI, TACE, and TARE. In cohort studies, the overall survival rates are similar to those obtained with surgery or systemic therapies. Prospective randomized controlled trials are warranted to compare safety and efficacy between different surgical, interventional, and systemic therapies, as well as their combinations."
review-article	VIS453013	"Epidemiology and Risk Factors of Cholangiocarcinoma Epidemiology and Risk Factors of Cholangiocarcinoma Background: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is the second most common primary liver cancer, being characterized by its late diagnosis and fatal outcome. Recent epidemiological reports indicate an increasing worldwide incidence of intrahepatic CCA but a decreasing incidence of extrahepatic CCA. Methods: In this review, we present an overview of the incidence and epidemiology of CCA and possible strategies for screening and surveillance. Results: Efficient strategies for the screening and surveillance of CCA have not been established so far. The vast majority of CCA occur sporadically without any apparent cause; however, several risk factors such as liver flukes, chronic biliary and liver diseases, and lifestyle-related aspects causing chronic inflammation and cholestasis in the liver have been linked to the development of CCA. These risk factors likely contribute to the increased incidence observed in some countries and also explain the wide geographical differences in the incidence of CCA. Conclusion: Several risk factors for CCA have been identified. Given the dismal prognosis of advanced CCA, regular surveillance examinations with a combination of ultrasonography and laboratory tests appear to be useful in patients at risk and need to be explored in prospective trials."
review-article	VIS453084	"Systemic Therapy of Cholangiocarcinoma Systemic Therapy of Cholangiocarcinoma Background: Cholangiocarcinoma (CC) is the second most common primary malignant liver disease. During the last decades, various novel therapies have been introduced in the field of oncology; nevertheless, the number of treatment options for CC is still limited. Methods: In this article, current palliative chemotherapy concepts as well as new drug therapies are outlined. Results: Gemcitabine and cisplatin are the standard treatment of care for patients with inoperable CC. Second-line chemotherapy is not standardized yet and is dependent on the first-line compounds. Antibodies against VEGFR and EGFR showed mixed or negative results. New molecular systemic treatments are not established yet. Conclusion: Many clinical trials are still ongoing and new therapeutic strategies, including immunotherapies, are under active investigation."
review-article	VIS453540	"Endoscopic and Photodynamic Therapy of Cholangiocarcinoma Endoscopic and Photodynamic Therapy of Cholangiocarcinoma Background: Most patients with cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) have unresectable disease. Endoscopic bile duct drainage is one of the major objectives of palliation of obstructive jaundice. Methods/Results: Stent implantation using endoscopic retrograde cholangiography is considered to be the standard technique. Unilateral versus bilateral stenting is associated with different advantages and disadvantages; however, a standard approach is still not defined. As there are various kinds of stents, there is an ongoing discussion on which stent to use in which situation. Palliation of obstructive jaundice can be augmented through the use of photodynamic therapy (PDT). Studies have shown a prolonged survival for the combinations of PDT and different stent applications as well as combinations of PDT and additional systemic chemotherapy. Conclusion: More well-designed studies are needed to better evaluate and standardize endoscopic treatment of unresectable CCA."
systematic-review	VIS454688	"Oligometastatic Disease in Colorectal Cancer - How to Proceed Oligometastatic Disease in Colorectal Cancer - How to Proceed Background: Oligometastatic disease in colorectal cancer may affect the liver, lung, and peritoneum. This review mainly focuses on colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) and highlights recommendations and therapeutic strategies drawn from the current literature and consensus conferences. The following data address a paradigm shift in surgical approaches to CRLM, pushing the limits of multimodal treatment concepts. Methods: A systematic review of the relevant literature on multimodal treatment strategies for synchronous and metachronous CRLM is presented. Results: The choice of treatment strategy depends on the clinical scenario; however, perioperative chemotherapy and the liver-first concept in synchronous CRLM are favored with subsequent partial extended liver resection with or without various augmentation techniques for liver surgery. Conclusion: Surgical strategies should be strongly defined with regard to an adequate liver remnant. All patients with synchronous CRLM should be evaluated by a multidisciplinary team."
systematic-review	VIS456630	Surgical Therapy of Sporadic Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasias G1/G2 Surgical Therapy of Sporadic Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasias G1/G2 Background: Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasias (pNENs) are uncommon but fascinating tumors with an annual incidence of 1 per 100,000 people. pNENs present either as functional tumors, causing specific hormonal syndromes like Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) or organic hyperinsulinism, or as non-functional pancreatic tumors (NF-pNENs). The natural history of pNENs is highly variable. 90% of all insulinomas or small NF- pNENs are readily curable by surgical resection. Most other functional and late detected NF-pNENs have a less favorable chance for cure. Methods: A systematic review of the literature was performed to identify the current state of the art with regard to the key issues of surgery in pNEN G1/G2. Results: This article provides a comprehensive review of the current literature addressing the current challenges in pNEN surgery. Conclusion: Patients with completely resected tumors generally have a good prognosis, and an aggressive surgical approach combined with conservative treatment options in patients with advanced disease rarely provides cure but often results in long-term survival.
review-article	VIS475611	Perioperative Management of Elderly Patients with Gastrointestinal Malignancies: The Contribution of Anesthesia Perioperative Management of Elderly Patients with Gastrointestinal Malignancies: The Contribution of Anesthesia Introduction: Elderly patients suffering from gastrointestinal malignancies are particularly prone to perioperative complications. Elderly patients often present with reduced physiological reserves, and comorbidities can limit treatment options and promote complications. Surgeons and anesthesiologists must be aware of strategies required to deal with this vulnerable subgroup. Methods: We provide a brief review of current and emerging perioperative strategies for the treatment of elderly patients with gastrointestinal malignancies and frequent comorbidities. Results: Especially in combination with advanced age, the effects of malignancies can be devastating, bringing new health challenges, exacerbating preexisting conditions, and exerting severe psychological strain. An interdisciplinary assessment and process planning provide an ideal setting to identify and prevent potential complications, especially in regards to frailty and cardiovascular risk. In addition, important perioperative considerations are presented, such as malnutrition, fasting, intraoperative neuromonitoring, and hemodynamic control, as well as postoperative early mobilization, pain, and delirium management. Conclusion: The decisions and interventions made in the perioperative stage can positively influence many intra- and postoperative factors, significantly improving the chances of successful treatment of elderly cancer patients. Appropriate management can help prevent or mitigate complications, secure a quick recovery, and improve short- and long-term outcomes.
systematic-review	VIS475938	Risk Factors for Adverse Outcome for Elderly Patients undergoing Curative Oncological Resection for Gastrointestinal Malignancies Risk Factors for Adverse Outcome for Elderly Patients undergoing Curative Oncological Resection for Gastrointestinal Malignancies Background: The incidence of gastrointestinal cancer increases with age, with approximately 20% of these cases in people over 80 years of age. Due to pre-existing comorbidities, this onco-geriatric population often presents diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. Methods: A systematic review of articles on PubMed was performed to determine the predictive ability of screening tools and their components regarding the occurrence of adverse outcomes in elderly onco-surgical patients with gastrointestinal malignancies. Results: Surgical procedures in this patient cohort, particularly complex resections, may result in increased morbidity and mortality. The decision to treat an elderly patient with curative intent requires sound clinical judgment based on knowledge, consideration of objective parameters, and experience. These patients could potentially be optimized for surgery with the improvement of nutritional and overall performance status as well as with stabilizing comorbidities. Conclusion: Various geriatric assessment and screening tools have been developed to identify risk factors to assist the surgeon and the interdisciplinary team in treatment planning, including the Frailty Assessment Score, Timed Up and Go test, nutritional status, and Activities of Daily Living test. It is important to emphasize that transparent and open communication between the treating surgeon and the patient is crucial in that the patient fully understands the implications of the treatment plan.
review-article	VIS477923	Endoscopic Resection Techniques Endoscopic Resection Techniques Cancers at an early stage of disease with a low risk of lymph node metastases or distant spread can be managed endoscopically. Different endoscopic techniques can be applied in the gastrointestinal tract. Furthermore, endoscopic and laparoscopic surgery can be combined in specific indications today. Most of all, resection-related complications can also be solved endoscopically.
systematic-review	VIS479477	Hypertrophy and Liver Function in ALPPS: Correlation with Morbidity and Mortality Hypertrophy and Liver Function in ALPPS: Correlation with Morbidity and Mortality Background: ALPPS (associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy) was introduced with the promise to reduce posthepatectomy liver failure (PHLF) in extended hepatectomies but has higher morbidity and mortality rates compared to conventional methods of volume enhancement. There are few studies of the incidence of PHLF after ALPPS and little information on how to avoid PHLF by functional testing. It remains unclear what causes the compromise in liver function despite rapid volume gain and if any of the modifications proposed reduce the incidence of PHLF. This review summarizes published data on this topic. Methods: This is a systematic review that studies literature on the incidence of liver failure and assessment of liver function following ALPPS as well as modifications of the existing technique. Articles were searched in PubMed, evaluated, selected, and tabulated. Results: The literature search revealed 326 articles that met the selection criteria. PHLF criteria as defined by the International Study Group of Liver Surgery (ISGLS) were the most commonly used criteria, but PHLF was frequently not defined. PHLF occurred most frequently after stage 2 of ALPPS at around 30% in most larger studies. Hepatobiliary scintigraphy showed a discrepancy between volume and functional growth of the liver. Function increase was only 50% compared to volume increase. Mechanistic explanations using histologic analyses have been given to explain the immaturity of the liver after rapid hypertrophy. Modifications of ALPPS showed a comparable volumetric gain when compared to classic ALPPS, but data were lacking to assess PHLF. Conclusion: ALPPS has relatively high rates of PHLF, morbidity, and mortality. This may be explained by data demonstrating functional growth when compared to volume growth. ALPPS should not be performed without functional assessment and with caution.
systematic-review	VIS480100	"A Comparison of Pitfalls after ALPPS Stage 1 or Portal Vein Embolization in Small-for-Size Setting Hepatectomies A Comparison of Pitfalls after ALPPS Stage 1 or Portal Vein Embolization in Small-for-Size Setting Hepatectomies Background: Portal vein embolization (PVE) followed by resection and associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALPPS) are tools to enable liver resections in small-for-size settings. Methods: A systematic review of the literature and comparison of pitfalls between PVE and resection and after ALPPS stage 1 were performed. Results: Evidence levels were as low as 4 for both procedures. 20 publications were identified with reports on post-PVE or post-ALPPS stage 1 pitfalls. A total of 2,758 patients treated with PVE followed by resection and 698 patients undergoing ALPPS were analyzed. Pitfalls identified were failure to advance to resection (PVE: high (20%)/ALPPS: low (1%); p = 0.0001), tumor progression (PVE: high/ALPPS: low); insufficient hypertrophy (PVE: frequent/ALPPS: rare), and inter-stage liver failure (PVE: rare/ALPPS: frequent). However, in-house mortality was still very high after ALPPS (7 vs. 3%, p = 0.0001) in a pooled analysis. Conclusion: PVE is a well-established technique to induce hypertrophy in small-for-size settings. The weakness of PVE is that it may fail to advance to resection. Inter-stage liver failure in ALPPS triggers post-stage 2 mortality. Prolongation of the inter-stage interval to overcome liver failure or cancellation of the resection stage combined with adherence to defined indications has the potential to make ALPPS much safer and decrease mortality rates. Level of evidence is low for both techniques."
systematic-review	VIS486008	"Lower Gastrointestinal Surgery: Robotic Surgery versus Laparoscopic Procedures Lower Gastrointestinal Surgery: Robotic Surgery versus Laparoscopic Procedures Introduction: For a long time, the comprehensive application of minimally invasive techniques in lower gastrointestinal (GI) surgery was substantially impaired by inherent anatomical and technical complexities. Recently, several new techniques such as robotic operating platforms and transanal total mesorectal excision (taTME) have revolutionized the minimally invasive approach. This review aims to depict the current state of the art and evaluates the advantages and drawbacks in regard to perioperative outcome and quality of oncological resection. Methods: A systematic literature search was performed using the search terms ‘colorectal cancer', ‘rectal cancer', ‘minimally invasive surgery', ‘laparoscopic surgery', and ‘robotic' to identify relevant studies reporting on robotic surgery (RS) either alone or in comparison to laparoscopic surgery (LS). Publications on taTME were analyzed separately. Results: 69 studies reporting on RS with a total of 20,872 patients, and 17 articles on taTME including 881 patients, were identified. Conclusion: Both RS and taTME can facilitate a minimally invasive approach for lower GI surgery in an increasing number of patients. Furthermore, combining both techniques might become an auspicious approach in selected patients; further prospective and randomized trials are needed to verify its benefits over conventional laTME."
systematic-review	VIS487011	Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery: Robotic Surgery versus Laparoscopic Procedures for Esophageal Malignancy Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery: Robotic Surgery versus Laparoscopic Procedures for Esophageal Malignancy Background: The evolution of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) also extends to the field of esophageal surgery and has brought forth the development of several approaches of minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE). Hybrid and total minimally invasive operative techniques have proven beneficial compared to open surgery and are currently evaluated against robotic-assisted minimally invasive esophagectomy (RAMIE). We aim to review the current literature regarding the position of MIE versus RAMIE. Methods: A systematic review of the relevant literature on minimally invasive esophageal surgery for cancer is presented. A PubMed search was carried out for the period of 1992-2018 with the following search terms: ‘esophageal cancer', ‘minimally invasive surgery', ‘resection', ‘transhiatal', ‘transthoracic', ‘MIE', ‘hybrid', ‘robotic resection', ‘RAMIE', ‘RATE'. Results: Hybrid and total minimally invasive operative techniques have proven beneficial, especially with regard to pulmonary complications, compared to open surgery. Oncologic outcomes appear equivalent between open and minimally invasive techniques. Currently, the position of RAMIE is being evaluated against other minimally invasive techniques. Conclusion: All minimally invasive techniques confer the expected reduction in perioperative morbidity compared to open surgery. However, MIS is still evolving with regard to specific technical challenges, especially anastomotic techniques.
systematic-review	VIS491649	Is the Surgical Margin in Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Different Is the Surgical Margin in Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Different Background: Radical surgical excision is the mainstay of therapy of primary, nonmetastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) and margin status after surgery is a significant prognostic factor. Methods and Results: The aim of this paper is to review principles in primary GIST surgery, i.e. differences between R0, R1, and R2 resection, to describe how surgical margin status and tumor intraperitoneal rupture influence the patients' outcome, and how this may be effected by neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment in locally advanced tumors. A systematic search of literature published between 2000 and 2018 was performed regarding this topic. Conclusion: Correct interpretation of margin status after surgery can be affected by many factors during operation and preparation of tissue.
review-article	VIS491799	"Surgery for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors: State of the Art of Laparoscopic Resection and Surgery for M1 Tumors Surgery for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors: State of the Art of Laparoscopic Resection and Surgery for M1 Tumors Background: The principles of surgery for primary gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) are resection with clear margins without lymphadenectomy, thus enabling organ-preserving resection in many cases. Tumor rupture needs to be avoided, because it entails peritoneal sarcomatosis. Given these preconditions, there is a rationale for laparoscopic resection of primary GIST. In metastatic GIST, surgery cannot achieve cure, but constitutes an important cornerstone of treatment. Resection can be performed either for residual lesions in responding patients, for focally progressive lesions, or as palliative measure in generalized progression. Methods: Selective literature review. Results: There is ample evidence on laparoscopic resection of gastric GIST, but none from randomized trials. The studies show favorable perioperative outcomes and suggest adequate oncological results; however, a direct comparison to open resection is difficult. For surgery in M1 stages, survival outcomes are better for resection in generalized response than in focal progression. Perioperative morbidity is acceptable. Surgery in generalized progression does not prolong survival and bears relevant morbidity risks. Conclusion: Laparoscopy seems an adequate surgical approach for primary gastric GIST, as long as the surgical principles relevant for this entity are respected. For other tumor sites, there is no sufficient evidence available. In M1 stages, selected patients may benefit from surgery. Survival differences between resection at different stages probably mirror the biology of the disease rather than the effect of the timing of the operation."
research-article	VIS493281	"Is Previous Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery for Early Rectal Cancer a Risk Factor of Worse Outcome following Salvage Surgery A Case-Matched Analysis Is Previous Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery for Early Rectal Cancer a Risk Factor of Worse Outcome following Salvage Surgery A Case-Matched Analysis Introduction: Transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) is a minimally invasive procedure which allows local excision of early-stage rectal cancer and can be used as an alternative treatment to radical surgery. Patients can undergo salvage total mesorectal excision (sTME) following TEM after finding of unfavourable histological features. This study aimed to compare results and possible complications of sTME following TEM and primary TME (pTME) procedures. Methods: Between 2010 and 2017, early sTME was performed in 9 patients at the National Cancer Institute in Vilnius, Lithuania. These patients were compared with 18 patients who underwent pTME, matched according to gender, age, cancer stage, and operative procedure. Data were obtained from the patients' charts and reviewed prospectively. We recorded the demographics, tumour specifications, treatment, operation time, postoperative results complications, and oncological outcome. Fisher's exact test and student's T test was used to compare both groups. Results: A total of 130 patients underwent TEM at our institution during the study period, of which 9 (6.92%) had to undergo sTME. The average age of the patients was 62.7 ± 7.07 years; 44.4% of the patients were male and 55.6% female. The average tumour size in the sTME group was 2.8 ± 1.05 cm (range 1.5-5) and 2.61 ± 1.36 cm (range 1-5) in the pTME group (p = 0.696). When comparing postoperative complications, statistically significant results were not found in either of the groups (p = 0.55). Operation time of pTME was significantly shorter on average, i.e. 43 min, compared to sTME (p &lt; 0.0267). The average number of harvested lymph nodes was 12.44 ± 7.126 in the sTME and 12.5 ± 8.06 in the pTME group (p = 0.986). The circumferential resection margin (CRM) was negative in 92.6% (25/27) of specimens, while the CRM was positive in 2 cases (7.4%), both of which were from the sTME group. The average follow-up time was 22.8 months (8-80 months) for patients undergoing sTME and 19.33 months (2-88 months) for patients after pTME (p = 0.71). Conclusions: TEM is a relatively safe method for treating patients with early rectal cancer without high-risk features. It can be used in exceptional cases with high-risk features when the patient is not fit for radical surgery."
review-article	VIS493291	Comorbidities as an Indication for Metabolic Surgery Comorbidities as an Indication for Metabolic Surgery Metabolic diseases, comprising type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), dyslipidemia, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), are rapidly increasing worldwide. Conservative medical therapy, including the newly available drugs, has only limited effects and does neither influence survival or the development of micro- or macrovascular complications, nor the progression of NASH to liver cirrhosis, nor the development of hepatocellular carcinomas in the NASH liver. In contrast, metabolic surgery is very effective independent of the preoperative body mass index (BMI) in reducing overall and cardiovascular mortality in patients with T2DM. Furthermore, metabolic surgery significantly reduces the development of micro- and macrovascular complications while being the most effective therapy in order to achieve remission of T2DM and to reach the targeted glycemic control. Importantly, even existing diabetic complications such as nephropathy as well as the features of NASH can be reversed by metabolic surgery. Here, we propose indications for metabolic surgery due to T2DM and NASH based on a simple but objective, disease-specific staging system. We outline the use of the Edmonton Obesity Staging System (EOSS) as a clinical staging system independent of the BMI that will identify patients who will benefit the most from metabolic surgery.
review-article	VIS493405	Neoadjuvant Therapy to Downstage the Extent of Resection of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Neoadjuvant Therapy to Downstage the Extent of Resection of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Introduction: Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) are rare malignant tumors in terms of incidence, and they are not linked to specific symptoms. Often, primary tumors, particularly of the stomach, rectum, or rectovaginal space, are quite large when detected, and multivisceral resection seems to be the treatment of choice as the mainstay of therapy is complete tumor removal. If a gain-of-function mutation in the KIT gene is present, drug therapy with receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (RTKIs) might significantly downstage primary GIST tumors. Methods: A review of the literature was performed to identify the current evidence for preoperative treatment of GIST regarding toxicity, efficacy, and oncological outcome, including mutational data from our own database. Results: Four phase II as well as several cohort studies showed acceptable toxicity and no increased perioperative morbidity of preoperative imatinib. Progressive disease during preoperative treatment was a rare event, and partial response was achieved in 40-80% of all patients. For methodological reasons, the trials cannot prove an oncological long-term superiority of preoperative treatment. Conclusion: Preoperative therapy with imatinib is safe and recommended for patients with locally advanced GIST. Neoadjuvant imatinib therapy may enable less invasive and organ-sparing surgery, avoid tumor rupture during extensive resectional procedures, and improve the quality of perioperative RTKI treatment.
review-article	VIS493474	Tumor Biological Aspects of Epithelial versus Mesenchymal Tumors of the Gastrointestinal Tract Tumor Biological Aspects of Epithelial versus Mesenchymal Tumors of the Gastrointestinal Tract One of the holy grails of cancer surgery for surgical oncologists is to perform a macroscopically complete resection of the affected organ or site with negative microscopic margins. The surgical oncologist must also be mindful of what constitutes appropriately-sized negative margins. However, what is necessary, based on the best available evidence, can vary considerably for different malignancies arising within the same organ. This review compares two different gastric and rectal malignancies, one each of epithelial and of mesenchymal origin. Data supporting extent of margins will be reviewed, illustrating the importance of knowing the histologic diagnosis prior to surgery to provide proper oncologic care.
review-article	VIS493492	"Impact of Modern Drug Therapy on Surgery: Ulcerative Colitis Impact of Modern Drug Therapy on Surgery: Ulcerative Colitis Background: The primary treatment of ulcerative colitis (UC) is conservative, and substantial therapeutic progress has been made in the past few decades. Meanwhile, biologicals have become a mainstay in the treatment for steroid-refractory UC. Despite further development of drug therapy and an increased time span to operation, a significant proportion of patients with UC require surgical intervention. Surgical intervention needs to be carried out in medically refractory cases, imminent or malignant transformation, or complications. This article discusses the impact of modern drug therapy on surgery for UC. Methods: A selective literature search of PubMed was conducted, taking into account current studies, reviews, meta-analyses, and guidelines. Selected articles were then reviewed in detail and recommendations were drafted based on data and conclusions of the articles. Results: In recent years, modern drug therapy has changed the timing, approach, and outcomes of surgery for UC. Most of the studies showed a decrease in surgery rates over time while the rate of emergency colectomies remains unchanged. So far, no convincing surgery-sparing effect of newer medications has been established, and it remains debatable if surgery rates have decreased because of improved management for UC in general or due to the introduction of biologicals. The intensified conservative therapy with increasing use of biologics has been accompanied by a trend towards performing a three-step procedure in the last decade. There is a subset of patients with complex refractory disease who most likely benefit from elective surgery as an alternative to prolonged conservative therapies after failure of first-line treatment. The majority of patients after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis can avoid hospitalizations and colitis-related medications with their associated potential adverse effects. In addition, the procedure substantially reduces UC-related symptoms and the risk for dysplasia or cancer. There is a long-term pouch success rate of &gt;90% after 10 and 20 years of follow-up. Conclusion: Conservative medical therapy in the treatment of UC will continue to develop and the number of approved therapeutics will grow. Surgery should not be considered as the negative endpoint of treatment modalities but as a good alternative to a prolonged conservative therapy for some patients. In conclusion, a close cooperation between the various disciplines in the pre- and postoperative management is essential in order to optimize the timing and outcome of patients with UC."
review-article	VIS493493	Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy - Fading Perspective in the Light of Modern Systemic Chemotherapy? Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy - Fading Perspective in the Light of Modern Systemic Chemotherapy? Background: Peritoneal metastasis (PM) in a gastrointestinal cancer is associated with a poor prognosis. Various guidelines recommend palliative chemotherapy in these patients as cure is not achievable. However, hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) in combination with cytoreductive surgery (CRS) can achieve long-term survival with low morbidity in selected patients. During the last decades, CRS and HIPEC have been performed in a number of indications, aiming for long-term survival. What is more, new drugs and treatment regimens demonstrate favorable results. Methods: The recently published important literature on PM in gastrointestinal cancer was analyzed. Results: Resection of isolated PM in a gastrointestinal cancer should be considered, and HIPEC is feasible. However, there is a lack of well-designed randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in gastrointestinal cancer-related PM. Many RCTs are being conducted across the world whose results will be available in 1-2 years. Systemic chemotherapy alone as an adequate management plan for isolated PM in a gastrointestinal cancer is not compatible with a high standard of care. Formulating an optimal plan combining the benefits of CRS and HIPEC coupled with systemic chemotherapy is a necessary task of the multidisciplinary team. Proper selection of the patients for CRS and HIPEC is necessary to achieve maximal oncological benefit and minimal perioperative morbidity and mortality. Conclusions: A multidisciplinary approach combining the benefits of both CRS and HIPEC, and systemic chemotherapy is the way forward to manage those patients with gastrointestinal cancer and PM. Further studies are warranted to identify the selection variables for CRS and HIPEC.
review-article	VIS493809	Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma: Why Is Specialization Mandatory? Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma: Why Is Specialization Mandatory? Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) represents a distinct form of thyroid cancer with a potentially aggressive behavior, early lymph node metastases, and sporadic as well as hereditary forms. Only surgery with total thyroidectomy and lymph node dissection is able to achieve biochemical cure. Due to the uncommon nature of MTC, a specialization in endocrine surgery for diagnosis as well as therapy of MTC seem to be mandatory for a successful treatment. Knowledge of genotype-phenotype correlations for hereditary forms or routine calcitonin screening for sporadic forms is important to analyze preoperative findings and plan surgical procedures. Postoperative follow-up depends on biochemical cure or monitoring for patients with elevated calcitonin levels.
review-article	VIS493889	Control of Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury in Liver Transplantation: Potentials for Increasing the Donor Pool Control of Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury in Liver Transplantation: Potentials for Increasing the Donor Pool Background: Organ shortage is a growing problem, with a rising number of organs being harvested from extended criteria donors, and this trend will further continue to increase as organ donors are getting older and have more comorbidities. Since this fact is immutable, efforts have been made to reduce the extent of ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) as well as of direct and indirect harvest-related graft injury which affects all organs in a more or less distinct way. Methods: In liver transplantation (LT), the activation of Kupffer cells during organ reperfusion, thus provoking microcirculatory disturbances, hypoxia, and endothelial cell injury, is one of the key mechanisms causing graft dysfunction. Multiple approaches have been taken in order to find efficient preconditioning methods by pharmacological pretreatment, controlled induction of ischemia, controlled denervation of donor organs, and reconditioning with machine perfusion to prevent IRI, whereas marginal organs (i.e. steatotic grafts) are especially vulnerable. Results: The above-mentioned approaches have been pursued in experimental and clinical settings. At this time point, however, there is not yet enough clinical evidence available to recommend any particular drug pretreatment or any other intervention for organ preconditioning prior to transplantation. Conclusion: The multifactorial pathophysiology in the setting of IRI in LT requires a multimodal therapeutic approach with the integration of pharmacological and technical means being applied to the donor, the organ per se, and the recipient. Currently, there is no consensus on standardized pretreatment of donor organs in order to improve the transplant outcome.
review-article	VIS493890	"Translational Research for Acute Pancreatitis - Which Results Have Really Influenced Our Therapy? Translational Research for Acute Pancreatitis - Which Results Have Really Influenced Our Therapy? Acute pancreatitis is a common disease characterized by acinar cell destruction and acute inflammatory changes of the pancreas that lead to a systemic inflammatory response. A major research effort has been undertaken to unravel the underlying pathophysiology and to identify possible therapeutic targets. Still, only very few findings have influenced our clinical practice in the treatment of acute pancreatitis. Pancreatic microcirculation and capillary blood flow have long been suspected to play a major role in the course of the disease. It therefore seemed tempting to speculate that manipulation of the vasoconstrictor endothelin or its antagonist nitrogen monoxide could positively influence the outcome. We had to acknowledge, however, that these mechanisms take place very early in the disease course and that only prophylactic applications show an effect; this is useful in the setting of pancreas transplantation and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography but not applicable for clinical use in the therapy of acute pancreatitis. Research then focused on later pathophysiological stages of the disease, mainly on the process of adhesion and extravasation of leukocytes into the pancreatic tissue. Here, integrins and adhesion molecules like the intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) were investigated in detail. A monoclonal antibody to ICAM-1 showed promising results in experimental models but was never further evaluated in the clinical setting. Hemodilution and fluid resuscitation was recognized to be an important therapeutic tool in acute pancreatitis. Here, initial experimental studies favored colloid solutions, and especially dextrans for isovolemic fluid resuscitation. It was recognized only later that colloid solutions are not effective and may even increase mortality in critically ill patients. Therefore, goal-directed infusion of Ringer's lactate solution at a moderate infusion rate to optimize volume status and hemoconcentration in acute pancreatitis is now advocated. In summary, out of the numerous experimental and translational studies, only very few have really influenced our daily clinical practice. Further research is therefore needed to find more specific and effective therapeutic agents for the treatment of acute pancreatitis."
case-report	VIS493891	Donor Shortage in Germany: Impact on Short- and Long-Term Results in Liver Transplantation Donor Shortage in Germany: Impact on Short- and Long-Term Results in Liver Transplantation With slightly more than 10 donors per million inhabitants, Germany belongs to the underdeveloped countries in Europe with regard to organ donation. Organ shortage is supposed to promote the usage of organs which are declined in case of less pronounced scarcity. This may result in deteriorated graft and patient survival. In the light of this situation, data on the centers' procedures and outcome of liver transplantation in Germany is presented based upon reports of Eurotransplant, the German Institutions for Quality Assessment, and the Deutsche Stiftung Organtransplantation. Surprisingly, along with an increasing organ scarcity, the outcome during waiting time and after transplantation has been improved. The 1- and 3-year patient survival improved by 7 and 9%, respectively. Reasons for this unexpected development are discussed.
review-article	VIS494097	Severe Acute Pancreatitis - How Conservative Can We Be? Severe Acute Pancreatitis - How Conservative Can We Be? Background: Acute pancreatitis still is a disease with overall high mortality. Continuously improved understanding of the pathophysiology, however, led to changes in treatment algorithms within the last decades, thus resulting in decreased mortality. This knowledge of acute pancreatitis enabled a new classification system introduced by an international expert panel. This classification system is helpful in initiating treatment strategies which are adapted to the course of acute pancreatitis. Especially the role of surgery experienced a paradigm shift towards a more conservative approach. Methods: A specific literature search regarding the treatment of acute pancreatitis was performed in the PubMed database, and the results of key studies were compared. Results of these studies are discussed in the context of the most recent international classification system. Results and Conclusion: Based upon the available data, we can summarize that conservative treatment of acute pancreatitis with pancreatic necrosis is a valid treatment option for selected cases and is associated with reduced mortality compared to more aggressive therapy. However, patients with acute pancreatitis should be treated in experienced centers.
case-report	VIS494280	Spigelian Hernia: Case Series and Review of the Literature Spigelian Hernia: Case Series and Review of the Literature Background: Spigelian hernia (SH) is an uncommon ventral abdominal hernia. Traditionally repaired with an open technique, the laparoscopic approach is becoming more common and widely described in the literature. We hold that the transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) approach restores the anatomy and prevents complications such as seroma. We present a series of SH repair carried out at a single district general hospital over the past 13 years and a review of the literature. Methods: A retrospective case note review identified SH repaired between January 2005 and March 2018 at The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, King's Lynn, Norfolk, UK. A Medline search for ‘Spigelian hernia' and ‘laparoscopic' revealed 41 papers for review. Results: 33 patients underwent repair of SH. We found that the TAPP repair with a mesh is anatomically the most sound repair, with all the added benefits of keyhole surgery, i.e. reduced hospital stay, quicker recovery, and fewer infections. Our complication rates matched those described in the literature. Conclusions: Several operative techniques have been described to repair SH. We favour the laparoscopic TAPP approach which is safe, aids in confirming the correct diagnosis, and has all the benefits of keyhole surgery.
review-article	VIS494303	Clinical Presentation of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Clinical Presentation of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract. They constitute 1-2% of all gastrointestinal neoplasms but are the most common subtype of soft tissue sarcomas, accounting for 20-25%. In the late 1990s, GISTs were more and more recognized as a particular tumor entity. The tumors are supposed to originate from the interstitial pacemaker cells of Cajal. They are usually well circumscribed and can be located in every part of the tubular gastrointestinal tract. Most often GISTs occur in the stomach, followed by the small bowel and colon/rectum. In contrast to epithelial tumors, GISTs grow transmurally and submucosal. GISTs can be found with highly variable growth features including tumors with intraluminal, intra- or transmural, and pedunculated appearance. Here we describe the most common clinical presentation of GISTs on the basis of our 809 patients managed from 2004 to 2017. The median age of our patients was 59 years and the average size of GIST was 75 mm (range: 4 mm to 35 cm). The clinical presentation is very heterogeneous, depending on tumor site, size, and growth pattern. GISTs of the stomach is the group with the lowest rate of acute or emergency symptoms with 31%, followed by GISTs of the duodenum with 42%, whereas GISTs of the small bowel show acute symptoms in more than 50% of the cases and have an emergency surgery rate of almost 15%. Many patients are diagnosed accidentally, through screening examinations, or with latent, unspecific symptoms.
review-article	VIS494347	Standard Approach to Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors - Differences between China and Europe Standard Approach to Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors - Differences between China and Europe Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. With the considerable research and application of molecular-targeted therapy for GISTs in the last two decades, GISTs have become a model of multidisciplinary oncological treatment. Although Western clinical guidelines are available for GISTs, such as those by the European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO), the clinical situations in China are different from those in European countries. There are distinct differences between the clinical practice, diagnostic methods, surgical approach, and availability of new targeted agents in China and those in Europe. This review summarizes the Chinese GIST consensus guidelines compared to the European ones, which may provide an optimal approach to the diagnosis and management of GIST patients.
review-article	VIS494883	Clinical Management of Appendicitis Clinical Management of Appendicitis Background: Ever since the first appendectomy has been performed, surgery has been the standard of care for acute appendicitis, with antibiotic therapy being reserved for special situations. Recent studies have shown the feasibility of antibiotic therapy for uncomplicated appendicitis. Methods: This clinical therapeutic review is based both on author expertise and a selective literature survey in PubMed based on the term ‘appendicitis', combined with the terms ‘acute', ‘complicated', ‘conservative', ‘non-operative', ‘therapy', ‘surgery', and ‘strategy'. According to these search results as well as to the treatment guidelines from the American College of Surgeons, Society for Surgery of the Alimentary Tract, Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons, European Association of Endoscopic Surgery, and World Society of Emergency Surgery, we present an interdisciplinary treatment concept. Results: Approximately 90% of patients treated with antibiotics are able to avoid surgery during the initial admission. The other 10% that fail to respond to antibiotics require a rescue appendectomy. Recurrence rates of non-operated patients within 1 year are as high as 20-30%. Conclusion: In uncomplicated appendicitis without risk factors for failure of non-operative management, a shared decision based on the patient's preferences should be made. In cases with risk factors, appendectomy is still the treatment recommended. If the diagnosis is uncertain or clinical symptoms are rather mild, antibiotic therapy should be started. In complicated appendicitis, management depends on the clinical state, with either immediate surgery or primarily antibiotic therapy and combined with drainage of abscess, being followed by interval appendectomy in some cases.
review-article	VIS495127	"Impact of Modern Drug Therapy on Surgery: Crohn's Disease Impact of Modern Drug Therapy on Surgery: Crohn's Disease Background: A significant number of patients with Crohn's disease needs to undergo surgery, and many of these patients are under modern drug treatment. These drugs may influence the rate of perioperative complications. This may have an impact on the chosen surgical strategy. Methods: This review considers clinical studies and guidelines on the effect of modern drug treatment on surgical complication rates and surgical strategy in patients with Crohn's disease. Results: Steroids above a certain dose significantly influence perioperative complications and should therefore be tapered down before performing elective surgery. Anti-TNF-alpha drugs are associated with perioperative complications, and therefore a safe interval between drug intake and surgery should be adhered to. The data on newer biologicals is scarce and conflicting; thus, it seems prudent to wait at least for one dosing interval before operating. In the emergency setting, patients undergoing bowel resection while on the above medications without an adequate interval to the last medication dose should generally get a resectional or diverting stoma. Conclusion: Modern drug treatment influences the surgical strategy in patients with Crohn's disease."
review-article	VIS495324	Minimally Invasive Surgery of Pancreatic Cancer: Feasibility and Rationale Minimally Invasive Surgery of Pancreatic Cancer: Feasibility and Rationale Minimally invasive pancreatic procedures, in particular minimally invasive pancreaticoduodenectomy, are amongst the most technically challenging procedures in general surgery. Accordingly, a high number of cases is required to master the procedures. Minimally invasive pancreatic surgery is well established for benign and premalignant lesions of the pancreas. Borderline resectable tumors with infiltration of the portal vein are also resected minimally invasively in specialized centers with appropriate expertise. Retrospective and registry studies demonstrate an equivalent long-term survival compared to conventional surgery. Perioperative morbidity and mortality are also equivalent, whereas minimally invasive surgery significantly reduces hospital stay. We expect more widespread use of minimally invasive pancreatic procedures in large centers.
research-article	ACY431148	"Cytomorphometric and Morphological Analysis in Women with Trichomonas vaginalis Infection: Micronucleus Frequency in Exfoliated Cervical Epithelial Cells Cytomorphometric and Morphological Analysis in Women with Trichomonas vaginalis Infection: Micronucleus Frequency in Exfoliated Cervical Epithelial Cells Objectives: The aim of this study was to explore the cytomorphometric and morphological effects of Trichomonas vaginalis in exfoliated epithelial cells. Study Design: Ninety-six Pap-stained cervical smears were divided into a study group and two control groups as follows: T. vaginalis cases, a first control group with inflammation, and a second control group without inflammation. Micronucleated, binucleated, karyorrhectic, karyolytic, and karyopyknotic cells and cells with perinuclear halos per 1,000 epithelial cells were counted. Nuclear and cellular areas were evaluated in 70 clearly defined cells in each smear using image analysis. Results: The frequencies of morphological parameters in the T. vaginalis cases were higher than the values of the two control groups, and the difference among groups was found to be significant (p &lt; 0.05). The nuclear and cytoplasmic areas of epithelial cells were diminished in patients with trichomoniasis. The mean nucleus/cytoplasm ratio in T. vaginalis patients was higher than the value in the control groups, and the difference between the study group and control group 1 was significant. However, there was no statistically significant increase between the study group and control group 2. Conclusions:T. vaginalis exhibited significant changes in the cellular size and nuclear structure of the cells. The rising frequency of micronuclei, nuclear abnormalities, and changing nucleus/cytoplasm ratio may reflect genotoxic damage in trichomoniasis."
case-report	ACY445095	Atypical Hidradenoma Mimicking Primary Mammary Carcinoma on Breast Fine-Needle Aspiration: A Case Report with Long-Term Follow-Up Atypical Hidradenoma Mimicking Primary Mammary Carcinoma on Breast Fine-Needle Aspiration: A Case Report with Long-Term Follow-Up Background: Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is well-established as an accurate technique for the diagnosis of palpable breast masses. While the differential diagnosis of such lesions usually focuses on benign or malignant mammary proliferations, a subset of breast neoplasms arises from skin and soft tissue. Skin adnexal neoplasms such as hidradenoma can pose a particular pitfall on breast FNA cytology (FNAC) as epithelial proliferations that are not of ductal or lobular origin. Case: A 59-year-old female presented with a superficial breast mass. FNAC revealed a hypercellular lesion with marked nuclear atypia that was highly suspicious for carcinoma. However, at partial mastectomy, the histological features of the tumor were consistent with atypical hidradenoma. Negativity for estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) confirmed the diagnosis. Eighteen years later, the patient remains free of recurrence or metastasis. Conclusions: This report offers the first description of findings of atypical hidradenoma on FNAC. In the breast, its high cellularity and nuclear atypia can mimic a primary mammary carcinoma on FNAC. Although breast and skin adnexal tumors show a immunohistochemical overlap, negative ER and PR stains in a low-grade tumor can suggest a nonmammary lesion. Skin adnexal neoplasms should be considered in the differential diagnosis of superficial breast tumors.
research-article	ACY445161	"Cytokines of Cervical Mucosa and Human Papilloma Virus Infection of the Cervix: A Descriptive Study Cytokines of Cervical Mucosa and Human Papilloma Virus Infection of the Cervix: A Descriptive Study Objective: The production of cytokines by various cervical cells can be triggered by antigenic stimuli, including human papilloma virus (HPV) infection. The aim of the present study was to evaluate differences in cytokine levels between various intraepithelial cervical lesions. Study Design: A total of 97 women participated in this descriptive study. Within our study population, 27 subjects presented with high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), 48 with low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (LSIL) and 22 with a normal smear. Colposcopy and directed biopsy were performed as needed. To confirm the presence of HPV, an HPV-DNA test was performed using polymerase chain reaction. Using flow cytometry to ThinPrep cervical samples, we assessed the family of interleukins (ILs), including IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and TNF-β and transforming growth factor-β1. Statistical analyses were performed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS for Windows; version 20.0). Results: Significantly lower levels of IL-1α, IL-2, IL-4 and TNF-α were detected in cervical samples obtained from the LSIL group when compared to samples obtained from the HSIL group. Conclusion: Significant differences in tissue cytokine levels exist between intraepithelial cervical lesions obtained from patients presenting with HSIL versus LSIL."
case-report	AHA455938	Successful Management of a Patient with Autoimmune Hemorrhaphilia due to Anti-Factor XIII/13 Antibodies Complicated by Pulmonary Thromboembolism Successful Management of a Patient with Autoimmune Hemorrhaphilia due to Anti-Factor XIII/13 Antibodies Complicated by Pulmonary Thromboembolism Autoimmune hemophilia-like disease (hemorrhaphilia) due to anti-factor XIII (FXIII) antibodies (AH13) is a very rare, life-threatening bleeding disorder. A 77-year-old woman developed macrohematuria and a right renal pelvic hematoma. The coagulation times were not prolonged, but FXIII activity and antigen levels were severely and moderately reduced to 9 and 29% of normal values, respectively. Accordingly, the FXIII-specific activity turned out to be low. FXIII inhibitor and anti-FXIII-A subunit autoantibodies were detected by a 1:1 crossmixing test and immunoblot and immunochromatographic assays. She was therefore diagnosed with “definite AH13” and treated with plasma-derived FXIII concentrates to arrest the hemorrhage. In addition to a highly compressed inferior vena cava by a huge renal pelvic hematoma, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary thromboembolism (PE) were identified by systemic computed tomography. The patient was immediately started on anticoagulation therapy with low-dose heparin. Emboli disappeared quickly, probably because under-crosslinked thrombi caused by severe FXIII deficiency are vulnerable to fibrinolysis. After about 1.5 years, anti-FXIII-A subunit autoantibodies still remained despite the use of rituximab, steroid pulse therapy, oral prednisolone, and oral cyclophosphamide treatments. In conclusion, an extremely rare AH13 case complicated by DVT and PE was successfully managed by balancing anticoagulation therapy with hemostatic therapy.
case-report	AHA484655	Acute Pancreatitis Associated with Ixazomib in a Multiple Myeloma Patient Acute Pancreatitis Associated with Ixazomib in a Multiple Myeloma Patient Background: Acute pancreatitis is an uncommon complication of anti-myeloma agents. Ixazomib is a first-in-class oral proteasome inhibitor to receive regulatory approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma. This case report describes the first case of ixazomib-associated pancreatitis. Case Presentation: An 80-year-old female with relapsed multiple myeloma presented with severe diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and acute renal failure 3 weeks after starting ixazomib and dexamethasone for disease progression. An extensive workup revealed acute pancreatitis without a definitive cause. Her condition improved with supportive measures and the discontinutation of ixazomib. The latter was suspected as the probable etiology of the patient's acute pancreatitis, given no clear alternative causes and the temporal relationship between initiating ixazomib and the development of her symptoms. Conclusions: Practitioners should include acute pancreatitis as part of their differential diagnosis in patients on ixazomib treatment who present with gastrointestinal symptoms.
case-report	AHA492485	Atypical Phenotype and Treatment Response Pattern in a Patient with FIP1L1-PDGFRα Mutation Atypical Phenotype and Treatment Response Pattern in a Patient with FIP1L1-PDGFRα Mutation Myeloproliferative disorders with eosinophilia may possess the FIP1L1-PDGFRα gene rearrangement. When this rearrangement is present, imatinib usually results in complete remission. In rare cases of imatinib resistance, there is poor evidence guiding second-line therapy. We present the case of a 71-year-old male who presented with abdominal discomfort, fevers, and leukocytosis with eosinophilia. The patient was diagnosed with a myeloproliferative neoplasm with eosinophilia and FIP1L1-PDGFRα rearrangement after a bone marrow evaluation revealed hypercellular marrow with eosinophilia and fluorescence in situ hybridization identified the FIP1L1-PDGFRα rearrangement. The patient was successfully treated with imatinib. Within months he relapsed and converted into acute myeloid leukemia. The patient was then treated with ponatinib which induced and maintained clinical and hematological remission for 2 months. That ponatinib briefly induced remission in our patient with acute myeloid leukemia arising from a myeloproliferative neoplasm with eosinophilia and FIP1L1-PDGFRα fusion may merit exploration of ponatinib as a potential second-line treatment option for this patient population. This is especially true given the lack of reliable therapies in instances of imatinib resistance.
meta-analysis	AJN493924	Age-Related Macular Degeneration in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Age-Related Macular Degeneration in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is an important cause of blindness in aged people. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) was reported to be associated with a higher risk of AMD. However, supporting evidence was inconsistent between studies. This work intends to examine whether a positive association exists between CKD and AMD by systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: A systematic search of electronic databases (Medline, PubMed, Cochrane and EMBASE) and reference lists on June 2017. The key inclusion criteria were controlled trials that investigated the relationship between AMD and CKD. The outcome measures included risk ratios and/or occurrence rates of AMD in CKD vs. non-CKD population. Data were pooled according to the type of AMD by random effect model. Results: Twelve observational studies (3 cohorts, 2 case controls, and 7 cross-sectionals) with a total 335,601 participants were included. Eleven studies reported risk ratios and 9 reported occurrence rates. Pooled prevalence for early, advanced, and any AMD were all higher in the CKD population than in the non-CKD population. The pooled multivariate adjusted OR of CKD vs. non-CKD was 1.49 (95% CI 1.11–2.02) for early, 1.55 (95% CI 1.05–2.27) for exudative, 1.58 (95% CI 1.12–2.23) for advanced, and 1.35 (95% CI 1.05–1.73) for any AMD. However, high statistical heterogeneity and methodological diversity existed. Moreover, results were inconsistent between different study designs. Conclusions: The overall results support a positive association between CKD and AMD, although some limitations exist. Given the risk that AMD is increased in CKD, regular eye screenings for the CKD population is recommended for an early detection and intervention.
research-article	ANM450763	"Trace Element Status (Zinc, Copper, Selenium, Iron, Manganese) in Patients with Long-Term Home Parenteral Nutrition Trace Element Status (Zinc, Copper, Selenium, Iron, Manganese) in Patients with Long-Term Home Parenteral Nutrition Background: The objective of the present study was to determine concentrations of zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), selenium (Se) in blood plasma and manganese (Mn) in the whole blood in patients with long-term home parenteral nutrition (HPN) in comparison to the control group. Patients and Methods: We examined 68 patients (16 men and 52 women) aged from 28 to 68 years on a long-term HPN lasting from 4 to 96 months. The short bowel syndrome was an indication for HPN. The daily doses of Zn, Cu, Fe, Se and Mn in the last 3 months were determined. Results: No significant differences in blood plasma were found for Zn, Cu and Fe in patients with HPN and in the control group (p &gt; 0.05). The concentration of Mn in whole blood was significantly increased in HPN patients (p &lt; 0.0001), while Se concentration in these patients was significantly decreased (p &lt; 0.005). The concentration of Mn in the whole blood of 16 patients with cholestasis was significantly increased compared to the patients without cholestasis (p &lt; 0.001). The Cu concentration was increased with no statistical significance. Conclusion: In long-term HPN, the status of trace elements in the patients has to be continually monitored and the daily substitution doses of these elements have to be flexibly adjusted. Dosing schedule needs to be adjusted especially in cases of cholestatic hepatopathy. A discussion about the optimal daily dose of Mn in patients on HPN is appropriate. For clinical practice, the availability of a substitution mixture of trace elements lacking Mn would be advantageous."
research-article	ANM465531	"Effect of L-Carnitine Supplementation on Reverse Remodeling in Patients with Ischemic Heart Disease Undergoing Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting: A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Trial Effect of L-Carnitine Supplementation on Reverse Remodeling in Patients with Ischemic Heart Disease Undergoing Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting: A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Trial During cardiac failure, cardiomyocytes have difficulty in using the substrates to produce energy. L-carnitine is a necessary nutrient for the transport of fatty acids that are required for generating energy. Coronary artery graft surgery reduces the plasma levels of L-carnitine and increases the oxidative stress. This study demonstrates the effect of L-carnitine supplementation on the reverse remodeling of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft. Patients with ischemic heart failure who underwent coronary graft surgery were randomized to group A - supplemented with L-carnitine or group B controls. Left ventricular ejection fraction, left ventricular systolic and diastolic diameters were assessed preoperatively, 60 and 180 days after surgery. Our study included 28 patients (26 [93.0%] males) with a mean age ± SD of 58.1 ± 10.5 years. The parameters for the evaluation of reverse remodeling did not improve after 60 and 180 days of coronary artery bypass grafting in comparison between groups (p &gt; 0.05). Evaluation within the L-carnitine group showed a 37.1% increase in left ventricle ejection fraction (p = 0.002) and 14.3% (p = 0.006) and 3.3% (p &gt; 0.05) reduction in systolic and diastolic diameters, respectively. L-carnitine supplementation at a dose of 50 mg/kg combined with artery bypass surgery did not demonstrate any additional benefit in reverse remodeling. However, evaluation within the L-carnitine group may indicate a clinical benefit of L-carnitine supplementation."
research-article	AON443550	"Gender Difference in the Role of Posterodorsal Amygdala on the Regulation of Food Intake, Adiposity and Immunological Responses in Albino Wistar Rats Gender Difference in the Role of Posterodorsal Amygdala on the Regulation of Food Intake, Adiposity and Immunological Responses in Albino Wistar Rats Lesion of posterodorsal amygdala (PDA) has been known to produce hyperphagia and obesity in animal models. However, the influence of gender on food intake (FI), body weight (BW) and immunological parameters following PDA lesion is not yet known. The present work was carried out to study the effect of gender on the regulation of FI, BW and immunological parameters following lesions of PDA in albino Wistar rats. Twenty-four albino Wistar rats were divided equally into 2 groups - PDA group and control group - with 6 male and 6 female rats in each. In the experimental group, bilateral electrolytic lesion of the respective nuclei was performed by stereotaxy and post-lesion parameters were recorded. In the control group, sham lesion was made. Male-female difference in each parameter was determined. Following PDA lesion, FI increased significantly in both male (p &lt; 0.001) and female rats (p &lt; 0.01) but the percentage increase in FI was significantly more in female rats (p &lt; 0.001). BW also increased in both the sexes but the increase in BW was significant only in male rats (p &lt; 0.05). Both male and female rats showed increase in the concentration of cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4), but the significant increase in CD4 concentration (p &lt; 0.01) was seen only in male rats. CD8 concentration increased significantly in male rats (p &lt; 0.05). The liver weight-BW ratio was significantly greater in female rats (p &lt; 0.001) following PDA lesions. Lesion of PDA results in accentuation of FI and BW gain and activation of immunity. There is a gender difference in the inhibitory control of PDA on FI, BW and immunity."
research-article	AON449482	"Exploring the Effect of Phyllanthus emblica L. on Cognitive Performance, Brain Antioxidant Markers and Acetylcholinesterase Activity in Rats: Promising Natural Gift for the Mitigation of Alzheimer's Disease Exploring the Effect of Phyllanthus emblica L. on Cognitive Performance, Brain Antioxidant Markers and Acetylcholinesterase Activity in Rats: Promising Natural Gift for the Mitigation of Alzheimer's Disease Neurodegenerative diseases are incurable and debilitating conditions that result in the progressive degeneration of nerve cells, which affect the cognitive activity. Currently, as a result of multiple studies linking Alzheimer's disease (AD) to oxidative damage, the uses of natural antioxidant to prevent, delay, or enhance the pathological changes underlying the progression of AD has received considerable attention. Therefore, this study was aimed at examining the effect of ethanolic extracts of Phyllanthus emblica (EEPE) ripe (EEPEr) and EEPE unripe (EEPEu) fruits on cognitive functions, brain antioxidant enzymes, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in rat. The effects of EEPEr and EEPEu fruits (i.e., 100 and 200 mg/kg b.w.) were examined in Swiss albino male rats for 12 days and its effect on cognitive functions, brain antioxidant enzymes, and AChE activity determined. Learning and memory enhancing activity of EEPE fruit was examined by using passive avoidance test and rewarded alternation test. Antioxidant potentiality was evaluated by measuring the activity of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathione reductase, reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione-S-transferase, and the contents of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in entire brain tissue homogenates. AChE activity was determined using colorimetric method. Administration of the highest dose (i.e., 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEr fruit significantly (p &lt; 0.01) and both lowest and highest doses (i.e., 100 and 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEu fruit markedly (p &lt; 0.05, p &lt; 0.001) increased step-through latency in rats on 6th, 11th, and 12th day with respect to the control group. For aforementioned doses, the percentage of memory retention (MR) was considerably (p &lt; 0.05, p &lt; 0.01) increased in rats on 10th, 11th, and 12th days with respect to the control group. The extract, particularly highest dose (i.e., 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEr fruit markedly (p &lt; 0.05) and lowest and highest doses (i.e., 100 and 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEu fruit significantly (p &lt; 0.01) increased the correct responses in rats on 6th, and 12th day related to the control group. In case of this test, the percentage of MR was significantly (p &lt; 0.05, p &lt; 0.01) increased in rats treated with aforementioned doses on 12th day with respect to the control group. The highest dose (i.e., 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEr fruit suggestively (p &lt; 0.05) and both lowest and highest doses (i.e., 100 and 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEu fruit suggestively (p &lt; 0.05, p &lt; 0.01, p &lt; 0.001) increased the levels of SOD, CAT, GSH, GSH-Px and expressively (p &lt; 0.01) decreased the TBARS level compared to the control group. Treatment with the highest dose (i.e., 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEr fruit significantly (p &lt; 0.05) and both lowest and highest doses (i.e., 100 and 200 mg/kg b.w.) of EEPEu fruit markedly (p &lt; 0.01, p &lt; 0.001) decreased the level of AChE activity compared to that of the control group. The present study shows that EEPE fruit possesses an excellent source for natural cognitive enhancer which could be developed in the treatment of AD and other neurodegenerative diseases."
research-article	AON492269	Changes in MIDAS, Perceived Stress, Frontalis Muscle Activity and Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Usage in Patients with Migraine Headache without Aura following Ayurveda and Yoga Compared to Controls: An Open Labeled Non-Randomized Study Changes in MIDAS, Perceived Stress, Frontalis Muscle Activity and Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Usage in Patients with Migraine Headache without Aura following Ayurveda and Yoga Compared to Controls: An Open Labeled Non-Randomized Study Background: There has been a significant increase in the use of complementary and integrative medicine to provide long-term healing solutions in migraine headache patients. Knowing the limitations of conventional medical approach, the present study evaluated the influence of two Indian traditional systems of medicine on migraine-related disability, autonomic variables, perceived stress, and muscle activity in patients with migraine headache without aura. Methods: Thirty subjects recruited to the Ayurveda and Yoga (AY) group underwent traditional Panchakarma (Bio-purification) using therapeutic Purgation followed by yoga therapy, while 30 subjects of control (CT) group continued on symptomatic treatment (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAID’s]) for 90 days. Migraine disability assessment score, perceived stress, heart rate variability (HRV), and surface electromyography (EMG) of frontalis muscle were measured on day 1, day 30, and day 90 in both groups. Results: Significant reduction in migraine disability and perceived stress scores were observed in the AY group. The low-frequency component of the HRV decreased significantly, the high-frequency component increased and their ratio showed improved sympathovagal balance. The EMG showed decreased activity of the frontalis muscle in the AY group compared to the control group. Conclusion: The integrative approach combining Ayurveda and Yoga therapy reduces migraine-related disability, perceived stress, sympathetic arousal, and muscle tension.
research-article	AUD446467	Cilostazol Effect on Amikacin-Induced Ototoxicity: An Experimental Study Cilostazol Effect on Amikacin-Induced Ototoxicity: An Experimental Study Objectives: To find out the possible protective effect of cilostazol against amikacin-induced ototoxicity. Methods: This study was carried out on 24 adult male rats classified into 4 equal groups of 6 animals each. (1) The control group was administered saline (1 ml/day, p.o.) for 14 days. (2) The amikacin group was administered amikacin (200 mg/kg, i.m.) once daily for 14 days. (3) The cilostazol-amikacin (14 days) group was administered cilostazol (30 mg/kg, p.o.) once daily and amikacin (200 mg/kg, i.m.) once daily for 14 days. (4) The cilostazol (28 days)-amikacin (14 days) group was administered cilostazol (30 mg/kg, p.o.) once daily for 28 days and amikacin (200 mg/kg, i.m.) once daily for 14 days. Changes in the transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) in the 4 groups were interpreted statistically. Results: No reported significant differences in TEOAE levels were detected between the groups at the start of the study. In all frequency bands, TEOAEs disappeared after amikacin treatment in the amikacin-alone group and remained absent in the amikacin-cilostazol (14 days) group, while TEOAEs reappeared in the amikacin-cilostazol (28 days) group. Conclusion: Cilostazol treatment for 28 days had a protective effect against amikacin-induced ototoxicity in rats.
research-article	AUD493558	Comparison of Two Different Treatment Protocols Using Systemic and Intratympanic Steroids with and without Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy in Patients with Severe to Profound Idiopathic Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss: A Randomized Controlled Trial Comparison of Two Different Treatment Protocols Using Systemic and Intratympanic Steroids with and without Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy in Patients with Severe to Profound Idiopathic Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss: A Randomized Controlled Trial Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the efficacy of simultaneous steroid and hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) in patients with severe to profound idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss (ISSNHL), which has a poor prognosis. Methods: Sixty patients diagnosed with severe to profound ISSNHL (≥70 dB HL) were randomly divided into two groups in a prospective controlled trial: an oral steroid + intratympanic steroid injection (ITSI) group (control group) and an oral steroid + ITSI + HBOT group (study group). Pure-tone audiometry (PTA) results and word discrimination scores (WDS) were compared between the two groups before treatment and 10 days and 1, 2, and 3 months after treatment. Hearing improvement was assessed using the modified American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery criteria. Analyses were by both intention to treat and per protocol. Results: A total of 58 patients completed the 3-month follow-up, and 2 patients in the study group were excluded due to follow-up loss in the per-protocol analysis. In the intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses, the study group showed significantly better hearing levels than did the control group at 500 Hz (p &
research-article	BBE487122	Brain Activation Patterns in Response to Conspecific and Heterospecific Social Acoustic Signals in Female Plainfin Midshipman Fish, Porichthys notatus Brain Activation Patterns in Response to Conspecific and Heterospecific Social Acoustic Signals in Female Plainfin Midshipman Fish, Porichthys notatus While the peripheral auditory system of fish has been well studied, less is known about how the fish’s brain and central auditory system process complex social acoustic signals. The plainfin midshipman fish, Porichthys notatus, has become a good species for investigating the neural basis of acoustic communication because the production and reception of acoustic signals is paramount for this species’ reproductive success. Nesting males produce long-duration advertisement calls that females detect and localize among the noise in the intertidal zone to successfully find mates and spawn. How female midshipman are able to discriminate male advertisement calls from environmental noise and other acoustic stimuli is unknown. Using the immediate early gene product cFos as a marker for neural activity, we quantified neural activation of the ascending auditory pathway in female midshipman exposed to conspecific advertisement calls, heterospecific white seabass calls, or ambient environment noise. We hypothesized that auditory hindbrain nuclei would be activated by general acoustic stimuli (ambient noise and other biotic acoustic stimuli) whereas auditory neurons in the midbrain and forebrain would be selectively activated by conspecific advertisement calls. We show that neural activation in two regions of the auditory hindbrain, i.e., the rostral intermediate division of the descending octaval nucleus and the ventral division of the secondary octaval nucleus, did not differ via cFos immunoreactive (cFos-ir) activity when exposed to different acoustic stimuli. In contrast, female midshipman exposed to conspecific advertisement calls showed greater cFos-ir in the nucleus centralis of the midbrain torus semicircularis compared to fish exposed only to ambient noise. No difference in cFos-ir was observed in the torus semicircularis of animals exposed to conspecific versus heterospecific calls. However, cFos-ir was greater in two forebrain structures that receive auditory input, i.e., the central posterior nucleus of the thalamus and the anterior tuberal hypothalamus, when exposed to conspecific calls versus either ambient noise or heterospecific calls. Our results suggest that higher-order neurons in the female midshipman midbrain torus semicircularis, thalamic central posterior nucleus, and hypothalamic anterior tuberal nucleus may be necessary for the discrimination of complex social acoustic signals. Furthermore, neurons in the central posterior and anterior tuberal nuclei are differentially activated by exposure to conspecific versus other acoustic stimuli.
review-article	BPU430084	Peritoneal Dialysis for Chronic Congestive Heart Failure Peritoneal Dialysis for Chronic Congestive Heart Failure Maladaptive responses between a failing heart and the kidneys ultimately lead to permanent chronic kidney disease, referred to as cardiorenal syndrome type 2. In this narrative review, we discuss the pathophysiological pathways in the progression of cardiorenal failure and review the current evidence on peritoneal dialysis as a treatment strategy in cardiorenal syndrome type 2. A patient with heart failure can present with clinical symptoms related to venous congestion even in the absence of end-stage renal disease. Diuretics remain the cornerstone for the treatment of fluid overload related to heart failure. However, with chronic use, diuretic resistance can supervene. When medical therapy is no longer able to relieve congestive symptoms, ultrafiltration might be needed. Patients with heart failure tolerate well the gentle rate of fluid removal through peritoneal dialysis. Recent publications suggest a positive impact of starting peritoneal dialysis in patients with cardiorenal syndrome type 2 on the hospitalisation rate, functional status and quality of life.
review-article	BPU452725	Electrolyte and Acid-Base Disorders in Chronic Kidney Disease and End-Stage Kidney Failure Electrolyte and Acid-Base Disorders in Chronic Kidney Disease and End-Stage Kidney Failure The kidneys play a pivotal role in the regulation of electrolyte and acid-base balance. With progressive loss of kidney function, derangements in electrolytes and acid-base inevitably occur and contribute to poor patient outcomes. As chronic kidney disease (CKD) has become a worldwide epidemic, medical providers are increasingly confronted with such problems. Adequate diagnosis and treatment will minimize complications and can potentially be lifesaving. In this review, we discuss the current understanding of the disease process, clinical presentation, diagnosis and treatment strategies, integrating up-to-date knowledge in the field. Although electrolyte and acid-base derangements are significant causes of morbidity and mortality in CKD and end-stage renal disease patients, they can be effectively managed through a timely institution of combined preventive measures and pharmacological therapy. Exciting advances and several upcoming outcome trials will provide further information to guide treatment and improve patient outcomes.
research-article	BPU453442	Evaluation of the Impact of a New Synthetic Vitamin E-Bonded Membrane on the Hypo-Responsiveness to the Erythropoietin Therapy in Hemodialysis Patients: A Multicenter Study Evaluation of the Impact of a New Synthetic Vitamin E-Bonded Membrane on the Hypo-Responsiveness to the Erythropoietin Therapy in Hemodialysis Patients: A Multicenter Study Background: Oxidative stress has been related to hypo-response to erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) in hemodialysis (HD) patients. The aim of this study was to verify whether vitamin E (ViE) on a synthetic polysulfone dialyzer can improve ESA responsiveness. Methods: This controlled, multicenter study involved 93 HD patients on stable ESA therapy, who were randomized to either ViE-coated polysulfone dialyzer or to a low-flux synthetic dialyzer. The primary outcome measure was the change in ESA resistance index (ERI) from baseline. Results: Mean ERI decreased in the ViE group by 1.45 IU/kg*g/dl and increased in the control group by 0.53 IU/kg*g/dl, with a mean difference of 1.98 IU/kg*g/dl (p = 0.001 after adjusting for baseline ERI, as foreseen by the study protocol). Baseline ERI was inversely related to its changes during follow-up only in the control group (R2 = 0.29). Conclusions: The ViE dialyzer can improve ESA response in HD patients. Changes in ERI during follow-up are independent from baseline ERI only in the ViE group. Video Journal Club ‘Cappuccino with Claudio Ronco' at http://www.karger.com/?doi=453442.
research-article	BPU458146	Effects of Cardiac Function with Postoperative Arteriovenous Fistula Blood Flow in Patients with Hemodialysis Effects of Cardiac Function with Postoperative Arteriovenous Fistula Blood Flow in Patients with Hemodialysis Background/Aims: This study was aimed at evaluating the effect of cardiac function with postoperative arteriovenous fistula (AVF) blood flow in hemodialysis (HD) patients. Methods: A total of 45 HD patients were examined at the Juntendo University Hospital. The AVF blood flow was measured using ultrasonography, and the cardiac function was measured using echocardiography. Correlation between these parameters and the rate of change in body weight (BW) was analyzed. Results: The number of postoperative days significantly correlated with the AVF blood flow, and it positively correlated with the stroke volume (SV). The postoperative AVF blood flow in patients with reduced ejection fraction (EF) was lower than that in patients with normal EF. The rate of change of BW negatively correlated with that of SV, positively correlated with cardiac output (CO), and positively correlated with CO in patients with an AVF blood flow of more than 1,000 mL/min. Conclusion: It appears that the cardiac function can be improved by controlling the BW even in patients with high AVF blood flow.
case-report	BRC437071	"Sporadic Case of Breast Angiosarcoma as a Complication of Radiotherapy Following Breast-Conserving Surgery for Invasive Ductal Breast Cancer Sporadic Case of Breast Angiosarcoma as a Complication of Radiotherapy Following Breast-Conserving Surgery for Invasive Ductal Breast Cancer Background: Angiosarcomas are highly aggressive and malignant blood vessel tumors. Rarely, angiosarcomas develop in the breast following conservative therapy, namely radiotherapy. Case Report: A 70-year-old female patient presented with dark purple discoloration of the skin of the right breast. 6 years earlier, the patient had undergone conservative surgery for invasive ductal carcinoma of the right breast. According to the breast-conserving surgery protocol, the patient had been treated with radiotherapy to the residual breast tissue. The patient's annual mammograms and ultrasound findings were normal. The skin lesion was superficially localized mostly at the border between the upper and lower medial quadrants of the breast (between 2 and 4 o'clock) and above the areola. The borders were uneven; the dimensions were 7 cm × 4 cm. The mammogram was classified as Breast Imaging Report and Data System (BI-RADS) 2. Ultrasound examination showed a well-vascularized structure, although the etiology was unclear. A tissue biopsy revealed angiosarcoma. The patient underwent radical simplex mastectomy. Following surgery, the patient underwent chemotherapy. Tests excluded metastases for a follow-up period of 5 years. Conclusion: Angiosarcomas that develop after radiotherapy following breast-conserving surgery are sporadic, but it is important to take this possible incident into consideration during treatment."
review-article	BRC443156	A Review on Breast Cancer Care in Africa A Review on Breast Cancer Care in Africa Background: The global incidence of breast cancer (BC) is rising, especially in low- and middle-income countries. The purpose of this review is to summarize existing publications on BC care in Africa. Patients and Methods: A systematic search in MEDLINE and smaller databases was carried out to identify African studies on BC treatment, and an additional PubMed search was performed for relevant topics on BC care. Results: A total of 219 publications, mainly from North and West Africa, were found by systematic search. We also selected articles on BC epidemiology, risk factors, clinical presentation, and cancer control in Africa. Conclusions: Publications on BC treatment are mostly from hospital case series. Evidence on treatment from prospective randomized trials that address the specific characteristics of African patients is lacking. The epidemiologic data shows rising incidences in Africa. The prevalence of risk factors is changing by age group, geographic region, and over time. The clinical picture of BC differs from that of Western countries due to the high proportion of young patients (on account of the African population with a high proportion of young people) and late presentation. Global collaborative efforts are needed to address the rising need for improved BC care in Africa.
case-report	BRC450867	Bilateral Diffuse Pseudoangiomatous Stromal Hyperplasia (PASH) Causing Gigantomastia in a 33-Year-Old Pregnant Woman: Case Report Bilateral Diffuse Pseudoangiomatous Stromal Hyperplasia (PASH) Causing Gigantomastia in a 33-Year-Old Pregnant Woman: Case Report Pseudoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia (PASH) is a benign proliferation of mammary stroma mostly described as an incidental microscopic finding. Clinically, it can manifest as a palpable, well-circumscribed breast mass or in rare cases as a diffuse bilateral process causing massive breast enlargement. The most postulated theory for aetiology of this condition is hormonal stimulation of mammary myofibroblasts, particularly by progesterone. A definite diagnosis of PASH is based on typical pathological findings like stromal hyperplasia and empty slit-like channels positive for myofibroblastic and negative for endothelial markers. The main clinical differential diagnosis is a fibroadedoma or phylloid tumour, and histologically a low-grade angiosarcoma. There are less than 200 cases of tumorous PASH and less than 20 of diffuse PASH reported so far. Here we present a case report of huge diffuse PASH, that is, to our knowledge, the first in a pregnant woman.
case-report	BRC486665	A Case Report of Triple-Positive Micropapillary Carcinoma of the Male Breast A Case Report of Triple-Positive Micropapillary Carcinoma of the Male Breast Background: Micropapillary carcinoma (MPC), a morphologically distinct subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma, of the male breast is an exceedingly uncommon disease. Case Report: Herein, we report a case of triple-positive MPC of the male breast with axillary lymph node involvement and no recurrence for over 2 years. Specifically, a 60-year-old male patient presented with a hard, elastic, and well-defined painless mass in the right breast. The patient underwent unilateral (right) modified radical mastectomy with axillary clearance. Histopathology revealed MPC grade 3 and metastasis in 16/16 lymph nodes. Hormone receptor analysis demonstrated strong positivity (total score 08) for estrogen/progesterone receptors and overexpression (score 3+) of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2. The patient received adjuvant chemotherapy (6 courses of CAF: cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and 5-fluorouracil), radiation, and tamoxifen. The patient has remained disease-free for over 2 years. Conclusion: This study demonstrates that triple-positive MPC of the male breast as a rare malignancy appears to respond promisingly to multimodality treatment.
meta-analysis	CED490065	"Cerebrovascular Accident Risk in a Population with Periodic Limb Movements of Sleep: A Preliminary Meta-Analysis Cerebrovascular Accident Risk in a Population with Periodic Limb Movements of Sleep: A Preliminary Meta-Analysis Background and Purpose: Periodic limb movements of sleep (PLMS) are usually comorbid with hypertension, tachycardia, and coronary arterial diseases, which are also risk factors for cerebrovascular accidents (CVA). However, evidence about the relationship between CVA and PLMS is still weak. The aim of this study was to investigate (1) the prevalence of CVA in patients with PLMS, and (2) the severity of PLMS in patients with or without CVA through a meta-analysis. Methods: The electronic databases of PubMed, Embase, ScienceDirect, ClinicalKey, Cochrane Library, ProQuest, Web of Science, and ClinicalTrials.gov were searched. The inclusion criteria were (1) articles investigating comorbidity between PLMS and CVA, and (2) clinical trials in humans. Results: This meta-analysis included (1) 9,823 patients with PLMS and 9,416 controls from 5 studies to analyze the prevalence of CVA in PLMS, and (2) 158 patients with PLMS with CVA and 88 PLMS controls without CVA from 3 studies to analyze the severity of PLMS with and without CVA. The results showed (1) significantly higher comorbidity rates of CVA in the patients with PLMS than in the controls without PLMS (OR 1.267, p = 0.019), and (2) higher PLM index in the patients with CVA than in the controls (Hedges’ g = 0.860, p = 0.001; means difference: 4.435, p = 0.016). Conclusions: The results revealed (1) a worse severity of PLMS in the patients with CVA, and (2) increased prevalence of CVA in the patients with PLMS. Based on our results, the patients had a higher prevalence of CVA within 8 years of a diagnosis of PLMS compared to those without PLMS by about 1.3-fold. Whether (1) patients with PLMS receiving treatment have a similar incidence of stroke to those without PLMS, and (2) secondary stroke prevention can lower the severity of PLMS or whether those with severe PLMS have a higher risk of stroke is still inconclusive. Future studies investigating the prevalence of CVA in patients with PLMS should use a follow-up period of over 8 years."
meta-analysis	CED495573	"Left-Sided Atrial Septal Pouch as a Risk Factor of Cryptogenic Stroke: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Left-Sided Atrial Septal Pouch as a Risk Factor of Cryptogenic Stroke: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Background: Despite some evidence of left-sided septal pouch (LSSP) involvement in the pathogenesis of cardioembolic stroke, the question of LSSP clinical significance still remains unsolved. In this study, we aimed to determine the association between the LSSP presence and cryptogenic stroke using meta-analytical approach. Methods: We performed a systematic review of electronic databases for studies that compared the presence of LSSP in subjects with cryptogenic stroke and non-stroke control. Data were extracted and pooled into a meta-analysis. Results: Seven studies (400 cryptogenic stroke patients and 1,456 non-stroke controls) were included in the meta-analysis. A total of 138 LSSPs were identified among the cryptogenic stroke patients, with a pooled prevalence of 29.8% (95% CI 17.5–43.7%), and 268 LSSPs were identified in the non-stroke controls, with a pooled prevalence of 21.0% (95% CI 13.7–29.5%). After meta-analysis, the risk of cryptogenic stroke was higher in patients with an LSSP than in patients without LSSP (OR 1.52; 95% CI 1.15–2.00; p &"
case-report	CHE447117	Germ Cell Tumor Targeting Chemotherapy in Gastric Adenocarcinoma with an Endodermal Sinus Tumor Component: A Case Report Germ Cell Tumor Targeting Chemotherapy in Gastric Adenocarcinoma with an Endodermal Sinus Tumor Component: A Case Report The most common sites for extragonadal germ cell tumors are the midline mediastinum, retroperitoneum and, much less frequently, the stomach. The stomach-originated primary germ cell tumor carries a poor prognosis, especially when metastasis occurs to the liver, with a mean survival time of 1 month. We describe the case of a 77-year-old male who presented with usual symptoms of gastric malignancy. Gastrectomy was performed. Histopathology of surgically resected tissue revealed a mixture of adenocarcinoma and endodermal sinus tumor components with α-fetoprotein production. After liver metastasis was identified, oxaliplatin and capecitabine were administered as palliative chemotherapy. The response was poor. For the second-line therapy, bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin (BEP) therapy was initiated. The overall response to these drugs was a partial response and the residual liver lesion was considered to be resectable. The patient died of pneumonia 11 months following the BEP session, representing an overall survival time of 22 months. Gastric adenocarcinoma with a germ cell tumor component is uncommon and an effective combination of chemotherapeutic agents is not yet clear. In this case, the patient received germ cell tumor-targeting chemotherapy and showed a durable response. Hence, germ cell-targeting cytotoxic agents have potential as the ‘front-line regimen'.
research-article	CHE481795	"Pazopanib-Induced Hepatotoxicity in an Experimental Rat Model Pazopanib-Induced Hepatotoxicity in an Experimental Rat Model Pazopanib is an effective treatment for advanced renal cell carcinoma and soft tissue sarcoma. Besides classical adverse events of this drug class, hepatotoxicity has been described as a frequent side effect. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of pazopanib on the liver in an experimental rat model. Sixteen Wistar albino rats were divided into 3 groups: experimental toxicity was induced with pazopanib (10 mg/kg) administered for 28 days (group 2) or 56 days (group 3) orally by gavage. Group 1 (control group) received only distilled water. Rats in groups 2 and 3 were sacrificed after the collection of blood and tissue samples on the 28th and 56th days, respectively. We found significant differences in bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, glucose, triglyceride, very-low-density lipoprotein, and iron values (p &lt; 0.050 for all) but none in any other parameter (p &gt; 0.050). All rats in the control group had normal histological features; however, none of the rats in groups 2 and 3 showed normal histology. In group 2, we observed mild sinusoidal dilatation, congestion, enlarged Kupffer cells, accumulation of yellow-brown-black pigment in the Kupffer cells and the accumulation of hemosiderin with Prussian blue reaction in the hepatocytes. In group 3, the findings mentioned above were more prominent, and besides these findings focal acinar transformation and macrovesicular steatosis were also observed. In group 3, mild inflammation within the portal areas was observed consisting of lymphocytes, neutrophils, and eosinophils. This study is the first that reports the biochemical and histopathological evaluation of pazopanib-related hepatic toxicity."
review-article	CIA375106	"The Effects of Food Allergy on Quality of Life The Effects of Food Allergy on Quality of Life The majority of research on food allergy has been bio-medical in orientation, focusing on issues such as the molecular structure of allergens, or aimed at methods of diagnosis. In the last decade, there has been a growing interest in the development of questionnaires that measure the impact of food allergy on health-related quality of life (HRQL). These studies have provided insight into the everyday burden of living with food allergy and have suggested ways that HRQL can be improved. The EuroPrevall project (europrevall@bbsrc.ac.uk) has given great impetus to research in the area of HRQL. In addition to clinical research on the prevalence, mechanisms and causes of food allergy, research output in the area of psycho-social impact has included HRQL measures for all age groups and examination of the socio-economic impact of food allergy. In this chapter, we review the literature on the impact of food allergy on children, teens and their parents; the majority of this data was generated over the life of the EuroPrevall project. We then examine both quantitative and qualitative research findings to provide an in-depth picture of the impact of food allergy on the concerns and everyday lives of children, teens, adults and parents. Research on factors that are related to and impact HRQL is also discussed. There is a strong emphasis throughout the chapter on developmental considerations of food allergy, spanning from infants to adults. We conclude by discussing methodological issues in relation to the measurement of HRQL in relation to food allergy. We offer some recommendations for future research and practice on HRQL so that HRQL measures can reach their full potential in research, practice and policy, with the help of the findings in this review. Overall, the findings suggest that food allergy has a strong impact on HRQL in terms of social, dietary, and psychological factors. ‘Rules' and restrictions ostensibly apply to food, but because food is such an integral part of everyday life, these restrictions extend far beyond ‘mealtimes'. Therefore, social events are experienced differently and have a different meaning for those living with food allergy, giving rise to feelings of exclusion and difference when compared to those without allergy. Children, teens, and parents need to cope with normal developmental changes as well as with the food allergy, placing them under increased psycho-social stress and leading to adverse effects on HRQL and coping. To address and attempt to alleviate such stressors, both quantitative and qualitative research suggests that targeting uncertainty should be a major goal for health professionals working with children, teens and families with a food allergy. Remarkable similarities in response to food allergy across countries suggest that policies and programmes that address quality of life issues may be relevant to many different populations. An in-depth understanding of the relationship between a diagnosis of food allergy and HRQL, as well as the factors that impact it, will ultimately lead to the promotion of earlier, more effective preventive strategies and interventions that are focused on maximising optimal health development and quality of life."
research-article	CMR486672	Psychosocial, Cognitive, and Physical Impact of Elaborate Consultations and Life Review in Female Patients with Non-Metastasized Breast Cancer Psychosocial, Cognitive, and Physical Impact of Elaborate Consultations and Life Review in Female Patients with Non-Metastasized Breast Cancer Background: Elaborate consultations and life review (ECLR) has been regularly applied in patients of various cancer entities and stages within Anthroposophic-integrative oncology concepts. However, a lack of systematic research in this field has been detected. To close this gap of knowledge, we evaluated the impact of ECLR in patients with non-metastasized breast cancer before, during, and after primary oncological treatment. Methods: Patient-reported outcome measures were evaluated by analyzing European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30) in patients with non-metastasized breast cancer who had received either oncological standard therapy alone or in combination with ECLR. Results: 95 female patients were eligible for questionnaire analysis (median age 58 years). Adjusted multivariable linear regression analysis revealed that ECLR was associated with significant improvements in medium-term global health/quality of life and emotional, social, and cognitive functioning. Furthermore, ECLR was associated with significant reductions of short-term appetite loss burden, pain, and short- and medium-term financial difficulties. Subgroup analyses revealed significant improvements in pivotal quality-of-life aspects including fatigue (p = 0.002) in chemotherapy-treated patients after ECLR. Conclusions: 12 months of surveillance of breast cancer patients reveals medium-term recovery of the global health status/quality of life and cognitive and psychosocial well-being associated with ECLR. In addition, our data indicate a possible association between ECLR and reduced short-term fatigue burden, which has to be re-confirmed prospectively in a larger study cohort. As long-term cancer survivors develop psychological symptoms similar to patients with chronic diseases, prospective studies should evaluate the impact of ECLR on the psychosocial well-being in these patients.
review-article	CNP445472	"Clinical Scenarios in Chronic Kidney Disease: Parenchymal Chronic Renal Diseases - Part 2 Clinical Scenarios in Chronic Kidney Disease: Parenchymal Chronic Renal Diseases - Part 2 Secondary nephropathies can be associated with disreactive immunological disorders or with a non-inflammatory glomerular damage. In systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), scleroderma and rheumatoid arthritis as in other connective tissue diseases, kidney volume and cortex echogenicity are the parameters that best correlate with clinical severity of the disease, even if the morphological aspect is generally non-specific. Doppler studies in SLE document the correlation between resistance indexes (RIs) values and renal function. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV) causes different types of renal damage. At ultrasound (US), kidneys have almost a normal volume, while during superinfection they enlarge (coronal diameter &gt;13 cm) and become globular, loosing their normal aspect. Cortex appears highly hyperechoic, uniform or patchy. Microcalcifications of renal cortex and medulla are a US sign that can suggest HIV. In amyloidosis, kidneys appear normal or increased in volume in the early stages of disease. Renal cortex is diffusely hyperechoic and pyramids can show normal size and morphology, but more often they appear poorly defined and hyperechoic. RIs are very high since the early stages of the disease. Nephromegaly with normal kidney shape is the first sign of lymphoma or multiple myeloma. In systemic vasculitis, renal cortex is diffusely hyperechoic, while pyramids appear hypoechoic and globular due to interstitial edema. When vasculitis determines advanced chronic kidney disease stages, kidneys show no specific signs. Microcirculation damage is highlighted by increased RIs values &gt;0.70 in the chronic phase."
review-article	CNP479256	Inflammation and Protein-Energy Wasting in the Uremic Milieu Inflammation and Protein-Energy Wasting in the Uremic Milieu Inflammation is normally a protective and physiological response to harmful stimuli, but typically becomes an uncontrolled, maladaptive, and persistent process in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Through a deleterious cascade of poorly controlled reactions mediated by biologically active molecules (also called middle molecular weight uremia retention solutes), inflammation associates with a range of complications including cardiovascular disease and protein-energy wasting (PEW). Persistent inflammation, which is central to the conceptual etiological models of PEW and the malnutrition, inflammation, and atherosclerosis syndrome, induces and reignites processes leading to PEW in a number of ways including stimulation of both direct and indirect mechanisms of muscle proteolysis. Similar to other chronic diseases, inflammation in the uremic milieu is the consequence of multiple factors including comorbidities, such as infections. In addition, inflammation is further aggravated in ESRD by uremic immune dysfunction, inadequate renal removal of cytokines, and inflammatory responses to dialysis. It is plausible that only by disrupting this vicious circle(s) by acting on several levels of the inflammatory cascade rather than targeting single causes of inflammation will it be possible to improve the prognosis in ESRD patients. Accordingly, treatment of uremic inflammation and PEW require an integrated approach. In addition to lifestyle modifications, nutritional supplements, and drugs with anti-inflammatory potential, improved dialysis therapy using high retention onset membranes has emerged recently. This novel dialysis technique, also called expanded hemodialysis (HDx), may provide a more efficient removal of middle molecules involved in the cascade of inflammatory mediators with selectivity against albumin losses. Plausibly, the implementation of HDx, integrated with strategies blocking an excessive secretion of inflammatory mediators, may offer a new therapeutic approach to chronic inflammation and PEW in ESRD.
review-article	CPB369670	"Growth and Differentiation Factor-5 Contributes to the Structural and Functional Maintenance of the Intervertebral Disc Growth and Differentiation Factor-5 Contributes to the Structural and Functional Maintenance of the Intervertebral Disc Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a widely recognized contributor to low back pain (LBP). The Prevention or reversal of IDD is a potential treatment for LBP. Unfortunately, current treatments for IDD are aimed at relieving symptoms rather than regenerating disc structure or function. Recently, the injection of growth factors and mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation have been shown to be promising biological therapies for IDD. Growth factors stimulate the proliferation of and matrix synthesis by intervertebral disc (IVD) cells, leading to the regeneration of degenerative discs. Growth factors, hypoxia and co-culture with nucleus pulposus (NP) cells induce MSCs to differentiate toward an NP-like phenotype, which can increase the number of functional cells in the IVD or enhance the function of endogenous disc cells to facilitate IVD regeneration. Therefore, the emerging roles of growth factors in IVD regeneration have piqued the interest of researchers. Growth factors including transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and growth and differentiation factor-5 (GDF-5), among others, have been demonstrated to enhance anabolism in IVD cells and to induce NP-like differentiation of MSCs. However, the injection of TGF, IGF and FGF into human IVDs may induce unwanted blood vessel ingrowth, which accelerates the process of IDD, the injection of GDF-5 may not have the same effect. This finding suggests that GDF-5 is a preferable growth factor for use in IDD treatment compared with TGF, IGF and FGF. The GDF-5 gene is one of the few growth factor genes that have been found to be associated with IDD thus far; moreover, the GDF-5 gene defects lead to collagen and proteoglycan abnormalities in discs in mice, suggesting that GDF-5 contributes to the structural and functional maintenance of the IVD. This review is focused on the functions of GDF-5 in the IVD and on the association between GDF-5 and a genetic predisposition to IDD. The effects of GDF-5 on IVD regeneration and on MSC differentiation are also discussed. GDF-5 plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of IDD and is a promising therapeutic agent for IDD. Additionally, stem cell transplantation has been shown to be a promising biological therapy for IDD."
research-article	CPB430192	Impact of Janus Kinase 3 on Cellular Ca2+ Release, Store Operated Ca2+ Entry and Na+/Ca2+ Exchanger Activity in Dendritic Cells Impact of Janus Kinase 3 on Cellular Ca2+ Release, Store Operated Ca2+ Entry and Na+/Ca2+ Exchanger Activity in Dendritic Cells Background/Aims: Janus kinase 3 (JAK3), a tyrosine kinase mainly expressed in hematopoietic cells, participates in the signaling stimulating cell proliferation. The kinase is expressed in dendritic cells (DCs), antigen presenting cells involved in the initiation and regulation of antigen-specific T-cell responses. Dendritic cell function is regulated by cytosolic Ca2+ activity ([Ca2+]i). Mediators increasing [Ca2+]i in DCs include ATP and the chemokine receptor CXCR4 ligand CXCL12. The present study explored, whether JAK3 participates in the regulation of [Ca2+]i in DCs. Methods: Fura-2 fluorescence was employed to determine [Ca2+]i, and whole cell patch clamp to decipher electrogenic transport in immature DCs isolated from bone marrow of JAK3-knockout (jak3-/-) or wild-type mice (jak3+/+). Results: Without treatment, [Ca2+]i was similar in jak3-/- and jak3+/+ DCs. Addition of ATP (100 µM) was followed by transient increase of [Ca2+]i reflecting Ca2+ release from intracellular stores, an effect significantly less pronounced in jak3-/- DCs than in jak3+/+ DCs. CXCL12 administration was followed by a sustained increase of [Ca2+]i reflecting receptor operated Ca2+ entry, an effect significantly less rapid in jak3-/- DCs than in jak3+/+ DCs. In addition, the Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ channel (CRAC) current triggered by IP3-induced Ca2+ store depletion and CXCL12 was significantly higher in DCs from jak3+/+ mice than in jak3-/- mice. Inhibition of sarcoendoplasmatic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) by thapsigargin (1 µM) in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ was followed by a transient increase of [Ca2+]i reflecting Ca2+ release from intracellular stores, and subsequent readdition of extracellular Ca2+ in the continued presence of thapsigargin was followed by a sustained increase of [Ca2+]i reflecting store operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE). Both, Ca2+ release from intracellular stores and SOCE were again significantly lower in jak3-/- DCs than in jak3+/+ DCs. Pretreatment of jak3+/+ DCs with JAK inhibitor WHI-P154 (22 µM, 10 minutes or 24 hours) significantly blunted both thapsigargin induced Ca2+ release and subsequent SOCE. Abrupt replacement of Na+ containing (130 mM) and Ca2+ free (0 mM) extracellular bath by Na+ free (0 mM) and Ca2+ containing (2 mM) extracellular bath increased [Ca2+]i reflecting Na+/Ca2+ exchanger activity, an effect again significantly less pronounced in jak3-/- DCs than in jak3+/+ DCs. Conclusions: JAK3 deficiency is followed by down-regulation of cytosolic Ca2+ release, receptor and store operated Ca2+ entry and Na+/Ca2+ exchanger activity in DCs.
research-article	CPB430214	"MicroRNA-21 Negatively Regulates Treg Cells Through a TGF-β1/Smad-Independent Pathway in Patients with Coronary Heart Disease MicroRNA-21 Negatively Regulates Treg Cells Through a TGF-β1/Smad-Independent Pathway in Patients with Coronary Heart Disease Background: CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells (Treg cells) play a protective role against the development and progression of the inflammatory disease atherosclerosis (AS). MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) is expressed in Treg cells and is up-regulated in the context of AS and other inflammatory diseases. Aims: This study aimed to determine the role of miR-21 in Treg cell regulation and gene expression during the development of AS in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). Methods and Results: MiR-21 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was significantly up-regulated in patients with CHD (acute myocardial infarction (AMI) group, n=24; unstable angina (UA) group, n=21; stable angina (SA) group, n=24) compared with patients with chest pain syndrome (CPS, n=27), and miR-21 expression showed an increasing trend from SA to UA to AMI patients. Moreover, flow cytometry analysis indicated that the frequencies of circulating Treg cells decreased in a manner proportionate opposite with the level of miR-21. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed a decrease in mRNA expression of forkhead box P3 (foxp3), transforming cell growth factor beta 1(TGF-β1) and smad7 (a known target gene of miR-21). ELISA analysis revealed a decrease in TGF-β1 secreted into the plasma. In addition, we transfected PBMCs with a miRNA negative control (NS-m), a miR-21 mimic (miR-21-m), a miRNA inhibitor negative control (NS-i), or a miR-21 inhibitor(miR-21-i). Up-regulation of miR-21 decreased the frequency of circulating Treg cells, decreased the expression levels of foxp3, TGF-β1 and smad7, and decreased the amount of TGF-β1 secreted into the plasma. Consistent with these observations, miR-21 down-regulation increased the frequency of circulating Treg cells, increased the expression of foxp3, TGF-β1 and smad7, and increased the amount of TGF-β1 secreted into the plasma. Conclusions: Because the smad7 expression pattern was similar to that of TGF-β, our study suggests that miR-21 can negatively regulate the frequency of circulating Treg cells through a TGF-β1/smad-independent signaling pathway in PBMCs."
research-article	CPB430274	"The Effects of 17-Methoxyl-7-Hydroxy-Benzene-Furanchalcone on Pressure Overload-Induced Cardiac Remodeling in Rats and the Endothelial Mechanisms Based on PGI2 The Effects of 17-Methoxyl-7-Hydroxy-Benzene-Furanchalcone on Pressure Overload-Induced Cardiac Remodeling in Rats and the Endothelial Mechanisms Based on PGI2 Aim: The primary objective of this study was to study the effects of 17-methoxyl-7-hydroxy-benzene-furanchalcone (MHBFC) on pressure overload-induced cardiac remodeling in rats, as well as the endothelial mechanisms based on PGI2. Methods: Six weeks following surgery, rats were divided randomly into the following groups: a sham group, a model group, an MHBFC 12 mg/kg/day group (MHBFC 12), an indomethacin 2 mg/kg/day group (Indo 2), and an Indo 2+ MHBFC 12 group. The MS 4000 organism signal system was used to record the rats' hemodynamic indices. Additionally, the heart weight was determined, and the cardiac remodeling index was calculated. HE and Masson's stains were utilized to perform histological analyses; the immunofluorescence was used to observe the microvessel density of myocardial tissue; the colorimetric method was used to determine the hydroxyproline content of cardiac tissue; the ELISA method was used to measure the plasma PGI2 content; and transmission electron microscopy was used to observe the ultrastructure of the myocardium. Results: A hyperdynamic circulation state, cardiac remodeling, decreased microvessel density and decreased plasma PGI2 content were each observed in the model group compared with the sham group, in which any changes in the above parameters were effectively reversed by MHBFC. Single-use Indo administration resulted in the progression of these pathophysiological changes; however, MHBFC prevented the worsening of these parameters. Conclusion: MHBFC significantly reverses pressure overload-induced cardiac remodeling, and its mechanism may partially contribute to the amelioration of endothelial cell function and the augmentation of PGI2 synthesis and secretion."
research-article	CPB438654	"The Effect of Hippocampal Cognitive Impairment and XIAP on Glucose and Lipids Metabolism in Rats The Effect of Hippocampal Cognitive Impairment and XIAP on Glucose and Lipids Metabolism in Rats Background/Aims: To investigate the effect of cognitive impairment and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) on glucolipid metabolism. Materials and Methods: β-amyloid (Aβ 1-42) was injected into the hippocampus of rats to establish a cognitive impairment model. Trans-activator of transcription (TAT)-XIAP fusion protein (the TAT-XIAP group), PBS (the model group), or XIAP antisense oligonucleotides (the ASODN group) was injected into the lateral ventricles of the rats to increase and decrease the activity of XIAP in the hippocampus. To determine the level of blood glucose and lipids, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) expression of liver and hipppocamual neuronal apoptosis. Results: The levels of FPG, TG, TC and LDL were significantly higher in the TAT-XIAP group, the model group and the ASODN group than in the blank group (P &lt; 0.05); however, the HDL level showed no significant change in all groups of rats. The apoptosis indexes of the rat hippocampal CA1 neuron were 68.44 ± 4.31%, 13.21 ± 2.30%, 56.68 ± 4.771%, and 87.51 ± 6.63% in the model group, the blank group, the TAT-XIAP group and the ASODN group, respectively. Gastrointestinal motility was less frequent (per time unit) in the model group, the ASODN group and the TAT-XIAP group than in the blank group. Compared with the model group, gastrointestinal motility was significantly less frequent in the ASODN group and was significantly more frequent in the TAT-XIAP group. Compared with the blank group, the model group had a significantly lower gastric emptying rate and intestinal propulsive rate. Compared with the model group, the gastric emptying rate and intestinal propulsive rate were significantly lower in the ASODN group and were significantly higher in the TAT-XIAP group. Compared with the blank group, the expressions of AMPK mRNA, and AMPK protein were significantly reduced in the model group, the TAT-XIAP group, and the ASODN group. AMPK expression was significantly increased in the TAT-XIAP group and was significantly decreased in the ASODN group than in the model group. Conclusion: Cognitive impairment and hippocampal neuron apoptosis can cause glucose and lipids metabolic abnormalities, possibly by regulating gastrointestinal motility and AMPK expression in the liver. The changes in the function of XIAP, which is an anti-apoptotic protein in the hippocampus, may affect the metabolism of glucose and lipids."
research-article	CPB453135	Roles of 1,25(OH)2D3 and Vitamin D Receptor in the Pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus by Regulating the Activation of CD4+ T Cells and the PKCδ/ERK Signaling Pathway Roles of 1,25(OH)2D3 and Vitamin D Receptor in the Pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus by Regulating the Activation of CD4+ T Cells and the PKCδ/ERK Signaling Pathway Background/Aims: The study aims to elucidate the roles of 1,25(OH)2D3 and vitamin D receptor (VDR) in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) by regulating the activation of CD4+ T cells and the PKCδ/ERK signaling pathway. Methods: From January 2013 to December 2015, a total of 130 SLE patients, 137 RA patients and 130 healthy controls were selected in this study. Serum levels of 1,25(OH)2D3 and VDR mRNA expression were detected by ELISA and real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Density gradient centrifugation was performed to separate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). CD4+ T cells were separated using magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS). CD4+T cells in logarithmic growth phase were collected and assigned into 9 groups: the normal control group, the normal negative control (NC) group, the VDR siRNA group, the RA control group, the RA NC group, the VDR over-expressed RA group, the SLE control group, the SLE NC group, and the VDR over-expressed SLE group. The mRNA and protein expressions of VDR, PKCδ, ERK1/2, CD11a, CD70 and CD40L were detected by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. Bisulfite genomic sequencing was conducted to monitor the methylation status of CD11a, CD70 and CD40L. Results: Compared with healthy controls, serum 1,25(OH)2D3 level and VDR mRNA expression in peripheral blood were decreased in SLE patients and RA patients. With the increase of concentrations of 1,25(OH)2D3 treatment, the VDR mRNA expression and DNA methylation levels of CD11a, CD70 and CD40L were declined, while the expressions of PKCδ, ERK1/2, CD11a, CD70 and CD40L were elevated in SLE, RA and normal CD4+T cells. Compared with the SLE contro, RA control, SLE NC and RA NC groups, the expressions of PKCδ, ERK1/2, CD11a, CD70 and CD40L decreased but DNA methylation levels of CD11a, CD70 and CD40L increased in the VDR over-expressed SLE group and VDR over-expressed RA group. However, compared with the normal control and normal NC groups, the expressions of PKCδ, ERK1/2, CD11a, CD70 and CD40L increased, but DNA methylation levels of CD11a, CD70 and CD40L decreased in the VDR siRNA group. Compared with the normal control group, the expressions of PKCδ, ERK1/2, CD11a, CD70 and CD40L increased, but DNA methylation levels of CD11a, CD70 and CD40L decreased in the SLE control and RA control groups. Conclusion: Our study provide evidence that 1,25(OH)2D3 and VDR could inhibit the activation of CD4+ T cells and suppress the immune response of SLE and RA through inhibiting PKCδ/ERK pathway and promoting DNA methylation of CD11a, CD70 and CD40L.
research-article	CPB460510	MicroRNA-29b Inhibits Angiogenesis by Targeting VEGFA through the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/Akt Signaling Pathways in Endometrial Carcinoma MicroRNA-29b Inhibits Angiogenesis by Targeting VEGFA through the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/Akt Signaling Pathways in Endometrial Carcinoma Objective: The purpose of this study is to explore the effects of microRNA-29b (miR-29b) regulating MAPK/ERK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways on angiogenesis in endometrial carcinoma (EC) by targeting VEGFA. Methods: Between February 2013 and April 2015, 126 EC patients admitted to the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University were randomly selected, with 126 EC tissues and the corresponding adjacent normal tissues collected after surgery. The human EC cell lines RL-95-2 and HEC-1-B and human endometrial cells were assigned to the normal group (human endometrial cells), the blank group (untransfected RL-95-2 or HEC-1-B cells), the pMIR-control group (RL-95-2 or HEC-1-B cells transfected with an empty vector), the pMIR-miR-29b group (RL-95-2 or HEC-1-B cells transfected with the miR-29b plasmid), LNA-control group (RL-95-2 or HEC-1-B cells transfected with an oligonucleotide inhibitors control), the LNA-miR-29b inhibitors group (RL-95-2 or HEC-1-B cells transfected with miRCURY LNATM miR-29b inhibitors), the LNA-miR-29b inhibitors + PD98059 group (RL-95-2 or HEC-1-B cells transfected with miRCURY LNATM miR-29b inhibitors and PD98059, an inhibitor of the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway) and the LNA-miR-29b inhibitors + wortmannin group (RL-95-2 or HEC-1-B cells transfected with miRCURY LNATM miR-29b inhibitors and wortmannin, an inhibitor of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway). qRT-PCR and Western blotting were conducted to detect the miR-29b expression and the mRNA and protein expressions of VEGFA, ERK, Akt, mTOR and Bcl-2. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to determine the microvessel density (MVD) expression in the EC tissues, adjacent normal tissues and nude-mice. Results: Compared with the adjacent normal tissues, miR-29b expression was down-regulated, the mRNA and protein expressions of VEGFA, ERK, Akt, mTOR and Bcl-2 were up-regulated, and MVD expression was increased in the EC tissues. Compared with the normal group, miR-29b expression was down-regulated, while the mRNA and protein expressions of VEGFA, ERK, Akt, mTOR and Bcl-2 were up-regulated in the other groups. Compared with the blank, pMIR-control and LNA-control groups, miR-29b expression was increased, while mRNA and protein expressions of VEGFA, ERK, Akt, mTOR and Bcl-2 were decreased in the pMIR-miR-29b group. The LNA-miR-29b inhibitors group exhibited elevated miR-29b expression and decreased mRNA and protein expressions of VEGFA, ERK, Akt, mTOR and Bcl-2 (All P &
meta-analysis	CPB470649	"Evaluating the Prognostic Value of microRNA-203 in Solid Tumors Based on a Meta-Analysis and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Datasets Evaluating the Prognostic Value of microRNA-203 in Solid Tumors Based on a Meta-Analysis and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Datasets Background: It has been reported that miR-203 expression was aberrant in various types of cancers, and it could be used as a prognostic biomarker. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to evaluate the prognostic value of miR-203 expression in solid tumors by using meta-analysis and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets. Methods: By doing a literature research in PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library (last update by December 2016), we were able to identify the studies assessing the prognostic role of miR-203 in various tumors. We then used TCGA datasets to validate the results of meta-analysis. Results:33 studies from 26 articles were qualified and enrolled in this meta-analysis. Pooled analyses showed that higher expression of miR-203 in tissues couldn’t predict poor overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) in solid tumors. However, the results of subgroup analyses revealed that the upregulation of tissue miR-203 expression was associated with poor OS in colorectal cancer (hazard ratio (HR)=1.81, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 1.31-2.49; P&"
research-article	CPB470893	The Effects of miR-136-5p-Mediated Regulation of A20 in Astrocytes from Cultured Spinal Cord Cultured Cells In Vitro The Effects of miR-136-5p-Mediated Regulation of A20 in Astrocytes from Cultured Spinal Cord Cultured Cells In Vitro Background/Aims: This study focused on investigating the regulatory mechanism of miR-136-5p in mouse astrocytes stimulated with interleukin-17(IL-17). Methods: C57BL/6 mouse astrocytes were stimulated with IL-17 (100ng/ml) for various periods of time (0-48 hours) and at various doses (0-200 ng), and the expression levels of inflammatory cytokine and chemokine genes (IL-6, TNF-α, MCP-1, MCP-5 and MIP-2) were then detected by real-time PCR. The expression of the A20 gene was measured with real-time PCR in cells that were stimulated with IL-17 (50 ng/ml) for various periods of time (0-48 hours). C57BL/6 mouse astrocytes were transfected with Ctrl-anti-miR-136-5p or LNA -anti-miR-136-5p for 48 h. Thereafter, the cells were stimulated with or without IL-17 (50ng/ml) for 6 h. The level of A20 protein (TNFα-induced protein 3, TNFAIP3) was detected by Western blot analysis. Results: (1) Compared with the DMEM control group, within six hours, IL-17 stimulation significantly increased the expression levels of inflammatory cytokine and chemokine genes and clearly decreased the expression level of the A20 protein. (2) Without IL-17 stimulation, the expression level of the miR-136-5p gene was significantly decreased, whereas in the miR-136-5p-inhibition group, the A20 protein expression was elevated. IL-17 stimulation slightly decreased the expression of the A20 protein in the miR-136-5p-inhibition group, but it was still slightly higher than in the control group. Conclusion: This study demonstrated that miR-136-5p affected the expression of A20 in IL-17-stimulated astrocytes.
meta-analysis	CPB475911	Prognostic Significance of Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio in Ovarian Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Prognostic Significance of Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio in Ovarian Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Observational Studies Background and Aims: Published data on the prognostic role of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) in ovarian cancer are controversial. We conducted this meta-analysis to obtain a more accurate assessment of prognostic significance of NLR in ovarian cancer. Materials and Methods: We conducted a systematic literature search using the electronic databases PubMed, Web of Science, and Embase up to May 2016. Hazard ratio (HR) and odd ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were calculated. Subgroup analyses were carried out to explore the source of heterogeneity. Statistical analysis was performed using Stata 10.0. Results: A total of 12 studies, consisting of 3,854 patients, which met our criterion were selected in this meta-analysis. Our pooled results showed that high pre-treatment NLR level was significantly associated with poorer overall survival (OS) (HR: 1.69, 95% CI 1.29-2.22) and shorter progression free survival (PFS) (HR 1.63, 95% CI 1.27–2.09). Additionally, increased NLR was also significantly correlated with advanced FIGO stage (OR 2.32, 95% CI1.79-3.00), higher serum level of CA-125 (OR 3.33, 95% CI 2.43-4.58), more extensive ascites (OR 3.54, 95% CI 2.31-5.42) as well as less chemotheraputic response (OR 0.53, 95% CI 0.40-0.70). The findings from most of subgroup meta-analyses were consistent with those from the overall meta-analyses. Conclusions: Elevated pre-treatment NLR could served as a predicative factor of poor prognosis for ovarian cancer patients.
research-article	CPB477891	Effect of TNF-α Inhibition on Bone Marrow-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Neurological Function Recovery after Spinal Cord Injury via the Wnt Signaling Pathway in a Rat Model Effect of TNF-α Inhibition on Bone Marrow-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Neurological Function Recovery after Spinal Cord Injury via the Wnt Signaling Pathway in a Rat Model Aim: The present study aimed to examine the effect of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) inhibition on bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) in neurological function recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) via the Wnt signaling pathway in a rat model. Methods: The rat model of SCI was established using Allen’s method. Seventy-two adult male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were randomly assigned into 4 groups (18 rats in each group): the sham control group, saline control group, BMSCs group (injection with BMSCs at the injured site) and BMSCs + TNF-α group (injection with BMSCs under TNF-α treatment at the injured site). Immunochemistry was performed to characterize the culture media after TNF-α-induced differentiation. qRT-PCR and Western blotting analyses were performed to detect the mRNA and protein expression of β-catenin, Wnt3a, GSK-3β and Axin. The Basso Beattie Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor score, neurological deficit score (NDS), and balance beam test (BBT) score were used to assess neurological functional recovery of SCI rats. Results: In the BMSC group, numerous spherical cell clusters grew in suspension, and the cells were nestin-, NF200- and GFAP-positive. Compared with the sham control and BMSC groups, the β-catenin and Wnt3a mRNA and protein expression was increased, but the GSK-3β and Axin mRNA and protein expression was decreased in the BMSCs + TNF-α group. The SCI rats in the BMSCs + TNF-α group exhibited lower BBB scores, and higher NDSs and BBT scores compared to the BMSCs group. Conclusion: Our study provides evidence that TNF-α inhibition may weaken the ability of BMSCs in neurological functional recovery after SCI by activating the Wnt signaling pathway.
research-article	CPB478918	Effect of Circular ANRIL on the Inflammatory Response of Vascular Endothelial Cells in a Rat Model of Coronary Atherosclerosis Effect of Circular ANRIL on the Inflammatory Response of Vascular Endothelial Cells in a Rat Model of Coronary Atherosclerosis Background/Aims: This study aims to investigate the role of circular antisense non-coding RNA at the INK4 locus (cANRIL) in the inflammatory response of vascular endothelial cells (ECs) in a rat model of coronary atherosclerosis (AS). A rat model of AS was established with rats that were injected with a large dose of vitamin D3 and fed a high-fat diet. Methods: Sixty Wistar rats were randomly assigned into control, model, empty vector, over-expressed cANRIL and low-expressed cANRIL groups (12 rats in each group). Sixteen weeks later, the ultrastructure of their coronary arteries was observed via transmission electron microscopy. Rat serum lipid levels were analyzed using an automatic biochemical analyzer, and their atherogenic index (AI) values were calculated. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was used to observe the endothelial morphology of rats. Additionally, rat EC apoptosis was tested via a TUNEL assay. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were applied to measure serum levels of interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and C-reactive protein (CRP). The cANRIL, Bax, bcl-2 and caspase-3 mRNA expression levels were measured with a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The protein expression levels of Bax, bcl-2 and caspase-3 were detected using immunohistochemistry. Results: In the control group, ECs were closely arranged with normal structures, and there was no proliferation. In the model, empty vector and over-expressed cANRIL groups, some cells were not present, and atherosclerotic plaques and thrombi appeared. However, in the under-expressed cANRIL group, the cells had a normal structure. Compared with the model and empty vector groups, the levels of total cholesterol (CHOL), triglycerides (TGs), low density lipoprotein (LDL), IL-1, IL-6, MMP-9, CRP, cANRIL, Bax, and caspase-3, AI values, and rates of EC apoptosis decreased in the low-expressed cANRIL group, while HDL (high density lipoprotein) levels and mRNA and protein expression levels of bcl-2 were increased. The changes in expression levels in the over-expressed cANRIL group were the opposite of those in the low-expressed cANRIL group. Conclusions: Our study provides evidence that reduced cANRIL expression could prevent coronary AS by reducing vascular EC apoptosis and inflammatory factor expression.
research-article	CPB481843	"H3 Relaxin Protects Against Myocardial Injury in Experimental Diabetic Cardiomyopathy by Inhibiting Myocardial Apoptosis, Fibrosis and Inflammation H3 Relaxin Protects Against Myocardial Injury in Experimental Diabetic Cardiomyopathy by Inhibiting Myocardial Apoptosis, Fibrosis and Inflammation Background/Aims: Apoptosis, fibrosis and NLRP3 inflammasome activation are involved in the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM). Human recombinant relaxin-3 (H3 relaxin) is a novel bioactive peptide that inhibits cardiac injury; however, whether H3 relaxin prevents cardiac injury in rats with DCM and the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Methods: To investigate the effect of H3 relaxin on DCM, we performed a study using H3 relaxin treatment in male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes (DM). We measured apoptosis, fibrosis and NLRP3 inflammasome markers in the rat hearts four and eight weeks after the rats were injected with STZ (65 mg/kg) by western blot analysis. Subsequently, 2 or 6 weeks after the STZ treatment, the rats were treated with H3 relaxin [2 µg/kg/d (A group) or 0.2 µg/kg/d (B group)] for 2 weeks. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography to determine the extent of myocardial injury in the DM rats. The protein levels of apoptosis, fibrosis and NLRP3 inflammasome markers were used to assess myocardial injury. In addition, we determined the plasma levels of IL-1β and IL-18 using a Milliplex MAP Rat Cytokine/Chemokine Magnetic Bead Panel kit. Results: The protein expression of cleaved caspase-8, caspase-9 and caspase-3 as well as fibrosis markers increased at 4 and 8 weeks in the STZ-induced diabetic hearts compared with the levels in the control group. Furthermore, the NLRP3 inflammasome was substantially activated in STZ-induced diabetic hearts, leading to increased IL-1β and IL-18 levels. Compared with the DM group, the A group exhibited substantially better cardiac function. The protein levels of apoptosis markers were attenuated by H3 relaxin, indicating that H3 relaxin inhibited myocardial apoptosis in the hearts of diabetic rats. The protein expression of fibrosis markers was inhibited by H3 relaxin. Additionally, the protein expression and activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome were also effectively attenuated by H3 relaxin. Conclusions: This study is the first to demonstrate that H3 relaxin plays an anti-apoptotic, anti-fibrotic and anti-inflammatory role in DCM."
review-article	CPB485089	Antioxidants Maintain Cellular Redox Homeostasis by Elimination of Reactive Oxygen Species Antioxidants Maintain Cellular Redox Homeostasis by Elimination of Reactive Oxygen Species Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are produced by living cells as normal cellular metabolic byproduct. Under excessive stress conditions, cells will produce numerous ROS, and the living organisms eventually evolve series of response mechanisms to adapt to the ROS exposure as well as utilize it as the signaling molecules. ROS molecules would trigger oxidative stress in a feedback mechanism involving many biological processes, such as apoptosis, necrosis and autophagy. Growing evidences have suggested that ROS play a critical role as the signaling molecules throughout the entire cell death pathway. Overwhelming production of ROS can destroy organelles structure and bio-molecules, which lead to inflammatory response that is a known underpinning mechanism for the development of diabetes and cancer. Cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP) are regarded as the markers of oxidative stress, can transform toxic metabolites into ROS, such as superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical which might cause injury of cells. Accordingly, cells have evolved a balanced system to neutralize the extra ROS, namely antioxidant systems that consist of enzymatic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidases (GPxs), thioredoxin (Trx) as well as the non-enzymatic antioxidants which collectively reduce oxidative state. Herein, we review the recent novel findings of cellular processes induced by ROS, and summarize the roles of cellular endogenous antioxidant systems as well as natural anti-oxidative compounds in several human diseases caused by ROS in order to illustrate the vital role of antioxidants in prevention against oxidative stress.
meta-analysis	CPB486252	"Comparison of the Efficacy of Different Drugs on Non-Motor Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease: a Network Meta-Analysis Comparison of the Efficacy of Different Drugs on Non-Motor Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease: a Network Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: A network meta-analysis is used to compare the efficacy of ropinirole, rasagiline, rotigotine, entacapone, apomorphine, pramipexole, sumanirole, bromocriptine, piribedil and levodopa, with placebo as a control, for non-motor symptoms in Parkinson’s disease (PD). Methods: PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library were searched from their establishment dates up to January 2017 for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating the efficacy of the above ten drugs on the non-motor symptoms of PD. A network meta-analysis combined the evidence from direct comparisons and indirect comparisons and evaluated the pooled weighted mean difference (WMD) values and surfaces under the cumulative ranking curves (SUCRA). The network meta-analysis included 21 RCTs. Results: The analysis results indicated that, using the United Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) III, the efficacies of placebo, ropinirole, rasagiline, rotigotine, entacapone, pramipexole, sumanirole and levodopa in treating PD were lower than that of apomorphine (WMD = -10.90, 95% CI = -16.12∼-5.48; WMD = -11.85, 95% CI = -17.31∼-6.16; WMD = -11.15, 95% CI = -16.64∼-5.04; WMD = -11.70, 95% CI = -16.98∼-5.60; WMD = -11.04, 95% CI = -16.97∼-5.34; WMD = -13.27, 95% CI = -19.22∼-7.40; WMD = -10.25, 95% CI = -15.66∼-4.32; and WMD = -11.60, 95% CI = -17.89∼-5.57, respectively). Treatment with ropinirole, rasagiline, rotigotine, entacapone, pramipexole, sumanirole, bromocriptine, piribedil or levodopa, with placebo as a control, on PD exhibited no significant differences on PD symptoms when the UPDRS II was used for evaluation. Moreover, using the UPDRS III, the SUCRA values indicated that a pomorphine had the best efficacy on the non-motor symptoms of PD (99.0%). Using the UPDRS II, the SUCRA values for ropinirole, rasagiline, rotigotine, entacapone, pramipexole, sumanirole, bromocriptine, piribedil and levodopa treatments, with placebo as a control, indicated that bromocriptine showed the best efficacy on the non-motor symptoms of PD (75.6%). Conclusion: Among ropinirole, rasagiline, rotigotine, entacapone, apomorphine, pramipexole, sumanirole, bromocriptine, piribedil and levodopa, with placebo as a control, apomorphine may be the most efficacious drug for therapy in treating the non-motor symptoms of PD."
review-article	CPB488068	High-Concentrate Diet-Induced Change of Cellular Metabolism Leads to Decreases of Immunity and Imbalance of Cellular Activities in Rumen Epithelium High-Concentrate Diet-Induced Change of Cellular Metabolism Leads to Decreases of Immunity and Imbalance of Cellular Activities in Rumen Epithelium Background/Aims: In animals, the immune and cellular processes of tissue largely depend on the status of local metabolism. However, in the rumen epithelium, how the cellular metabolism affects epithelial immunity, and cellular processes, when the diet is switched from energy-rich to energy-excess status, with regard to animal production and health, have not as yet been reported. Methods: RNA-seq was applied to compare the biological processes altered by an increase of dietary concentration from 10% to 35% with those altered by an increase of dietary concentration from 35% to 65% (dietary concentrate: the non-grass component in diet, including corn, soya bean meal and additive. High concentrate diet composed of 35% grass, 55% corn, 8% soya bean meal and 2% additive). In addition to the functional analysis of enriched genes in terms of metabolism, the immune system, and cellular process, the highly correlated genes to the enriched metabolism genes were identified, and the function and signaling pathways related to the differentially expressed neighbors were compared among the groups. Results: The variation trends of molar proportions of ruminal SCFAs and those of enriched pathways belonging to metabolism, immune system, and cellular process were altered with the change of diets. With regard to metabolism, lipid metabolism and amino acid metabolism were most affected. According to the correlation analysis, both innate and adaptive immune responses were promoted by the metabolism genes enriched under the 65% concentrate diet. However, the majority of immune responses were suppressed under the 35% concentrate diet. Moreover, the exclusive upregulation of cell growth and dysfunction of cellular transport and catabolism were induced by the metabolism genes enriched under the 65% concentrate diet. On the contrary, a balanced regulation of cellular processes was detected under the 35% concentrate diet. Conclusions: These results indicated that the alterations of cellular metabolism promote the alterations in cellular immunity, repair, and homeostasis in the rumen epithelium, thereby leading to the switch of concentrate effects from positive to negative with regard to animal production and health.
research-article	CPB489384	Intravenously Delivered Allogeneic Mesenchymal Stem Cells Bidirectionally Regulate Inflammation and Induce Neurotrophic Effects in Distal Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion Rats Within the First 7 Days After Stroke Intravenously Delivered Allogeneic Mesenchymal Stem Cells Bidirectionally Regulate Inflammation and Induce Neurotrophic Effects in Distal Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion Rats Within the First 7 Days After Stroke Background/Aims: Neurotrophic effects and immunosuppression are the main therapeutic mechanisms of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in stroke treatment. Neurotrophins are produced by graft cells, host neurons, astrocytes, and even microglia/macrophages. Meanwhile, MSCs can increase inflammation if they are not sufficiently induced by pro-inflammatory cytokines. We examined whether intravenously transplanted bone marrow MSCs (BM-MSCs) increase inflammation in distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (dMCAO) rats, how long the increased inflammation effect persists for, and what the final therapeutic outcomes will be. We also tested the neurotrophic role of BM-MSCs and attempted to identify the neurotrophin-producing cells. Methods: At 1 h after dMCAO was performed on Sprague-Dawley rats, allogeneic BM-MSCs were transplanted intravenously. The infarct volume was examined by Tetrazolium Red staining at 2 days (day 2), and the behavioral tests (cylinder test and grid walking test) were performed at 2, 4 (day 4) and 7 days (day 7) after transplantation. The concentrations of inflammation related cytokines and neurotrophins in the ischemic cortex, ipsilateral striatum, and serum, were measured using ELISA at days 2-7. The cell source of neurotrophins was observed by immunohistochemistry. Results: The transplanted cells were mainly found in the infarct border zone (IBZ) of the brain. Infarct volume was reduced and behavioral outcomes were improved at 2 days after ischemia. In the striatum and circulation, BM-MSC transplantation increased inflammation at day 2 and decreased it at day 7. At days 2-7, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) concentrations in the ischemic core of the cortex were significantly higher in the BM-MSC group than in the ischemia vehicle group. IGF-1 and BDNF were derived mainly from host microglia/macrophages in the ischemic core, and transplanted cells in the IBZ. At day 2, BM-MSC transplantation significantly increased the number of IGF-1+CD68+ and BDNF+Iba-1+ double positive cells in the ischemic core cortex. Conclusions: Although increased inflammation, BM-MSCs were still beneficial to dMCAO recovery at day 2. The immunopromoting effect of MSCs was transient and shifted to an immunosuppressive action at day 7. The neurotrophic factors IGF-1 and BDNF, which were mainly derived from transplanted BM-MSCs and host microglia/macrophages, contributed to the therapeutic effects from day 2 to day 7.
review-article	CPB489440	Unhealthy Stem Cells: When Health Conditions Upset Stem Cell Properties Unhealthy Stem Cells: When Health Conditions Upset Stem Cell Properties The stem cell field has grown very rapidly during the last decade, offering the promise of innovative therapies to treat disease. Different stem cell populations have been isolated from various human adult tissues, mainly from bone marrow and adipose tissue, but many other body tissues harbor a stem cell population. Adult tissue stem cells are invariably found in discrete microenvironments termed niches, where they play key roles in tissue homeostasis by enabling lifelong optimization of organ form and function. Some diseases are known to strike at the stem cell population, through alterations in their specific microenvironments, making them non-viable. Furthermore, it has been shown that a transformed stem cell population could prompt the development of certain cancers. This review focuses on the potential negative aspects of a range of diseases on the activity of stem cells and how their potential use in cell therapies may be affected.
review-article	CPB489979	Novel Therapeutic Strategies for Solid Tumor Based on Body’s Intrinsic Antitumor Immune System Novel Therapeutic Strategies for Solid Tumor Based on Body’s Intrinsic Antitumor Immune System The accumulation of mutated somatic cells due to the incompetency of body’s immune system may lead to tumor onset. Therefore, enhancing the ability of the system to eliminate such cells should be the core of tumor therapy. The intrinsic antitumor immunity is triggered by tumor-specific antigens (TSA) or TSA-sensitized dendritic cells (DC). Once initiated, specific anti-tumor antibodies are produced and tumor-specific killer immune cells, including cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), NK cells, and macrophages, are raised or induced. Several strategies may enhance antitumor action of immune system, such as supplying tumor-targeted antibody, activating T cells, enhancing the activity and tumor recognition of NK cells, promoting tumor-targeted phagocytosis of macrophages, and eliminating the immunosuppressive myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and Treg cells. Apart from the immune system, the removal of tumor burden still needs to be assisted by drugs, surgery or radiation. And the body’s internal environment and tumor microenvironment should be improved to recover immune cell function and prevent tumor growth. Multiple microenvironment modulatory therapies may be applied, including addressing hypoxia and oxidative stress, correcting metabolic disorders, and controlling chronic inflammation. Finally, to cure tumor and prevent tumor recurrence, repairing or supporting therapy that consist of tissue repair and nutritional supplement should be applied properly.
review-article	CPB491465	Nrf2 Pathway in Age-Related Neurological Disorders: Insights into MicroRNAs Nrf2 Pathway in Age-Related Neurological Disorders: Insights into MicroRNAs A general hallmark of neurological diseases is the loss of redox homeostasis that triggers oxidative damages to biomolecules compromising neuronal function. Under physiological conditions the steady-state concentrations of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) are finely regulated for proper cellular functions. Reduced surveillance of endogenous antioxidant defenses and/or increased ROS/RNS production leads to oxidative stress with consequent alteration of physiological processes. Neuronal cells are particularly susceptible to ROS/RNS due to their biochemical composition. Overwhelming evidences indicate that nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2)-linked pathways are involved in protective mechanisms against oxidative stress by regulating antioxidant and phase II detoxifying genes. As such, Nrf2 deregulation has been linked to both aging and pathogenesis of many human chronic diseases, including neurodegenerative ones such as Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Nrf2 activity is tightly regulated by a fine balance between positive and negative modulators. A better understanding of the regulatory mechanisms underlying Nrf2 activity could help to develop novel therapeutic interventions to prevent, slow down or possibly reverse various pathological states. To this end, microRNAs (miRs) are attractive candidates because they are linked to intracellular redox status being regulated and, post-transcriptionally, regulating key components of ROS/RNS pathways, including Nrf2.
review-article	CPB491469	Emerging Role of Exosomes in the Joint Diseases Emerging Role of Exosomes in the Joint Diseases Exosomes are a subset of small, membrane-bound extracellular vesicles that are important for communication among cells. They originate from the cell membrane during endocytic internalization, and are stable in biological fluids, including blood and synovial fluids. Increasing knowledge is emerging about exosomes in joint diseases, including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteonecrosis of the femoral head, and others. Exosomes in synovial fluid can lead to inflammation, degeneration of cartilage, and destruction of joints. Exosomes in blood have diagnostic value in the early disease stage or for complicated conditions of joint diseases. Exosomes from stem cells could delay diseases and repair joints. For a comprehensive understanding about the emerging role of exosomes in joint diseases, we introduced the isolation and verification of exosomes from synovial fluid, reviewed the physiological and pathological effects of exosomes on joints, and discussed the diagnostic value and therapeutic potential of exosomes in joint diseases. In the future, immunologically active exosomes and engineered exosomes will of interest in the joint diseases. Challenges in the field of exosomes in joint-disease research include complex and expensive isolation, detection of contributing molecular, effectiveness and safety evaluation. In summary, challenges remain, but the field of exosomes in joint diseases has potential, including in mechanisms, diagnoses and therapies.
meta-analysis	CPB491534	A Preliminary Investigation of PVT1 on the Effect and Mechanisms of Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Evidence from Clinical Data, a Meta-Analysis of 840 Cases, and In Vivo Validation A Preliminary Investigation of PVT1 on the Effect and Mechanisms of Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Evidence from Clinical Data, a Meta-Analysis of 840 Cases, and In Vivo Validation Background/Aims: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a difficult problem that significantly affects the survival of the afflicted patients. Accumulating evidence has demonstrated the functions of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) in HCC. In the present study, we aimed to explore the potential roles of PVT1 in the tumorigenesis and progression of HCC. Methods: In this study, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was applied to detect the differences between PVT1 expression in HCC tissues and cell lines. Then, the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases were searched to confirm the relationship between PVT1 expression and HCC. Moreover, a meta-analysis comprising TCGA, GEO, and RT-qPCR was applied to estimate the expression of PVT1 in HCC. Then, cell proliferation was evaluated in vitro. A chicken chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) model of HCC was constructed to measure the effect on tumorigenicity in vivo. To further explore the sponge microRNA (miRNA) of PVT1 in HCC, we used TCGA, GEO, a gene microarray, and target prediction algorithms. TCGA and GEO and the gene microarray were used to select the differentially expressed miRNAs, and the different target prediction algorithms were applied to predict the target miRNAs of PVT1. Results: We found that PVT1 was markedly overexpressed in HCC tissue than in normal liver tissues based on both RT-qPCR and data from TCGA, and the overexpression of PVT1 was closely related to the gender and race of the patient as well as to higher HCC tumor grades. Also, a meta-analysis of 840 cases from multiple sources (TCGA, GEO and the results of our in-house RT-qPCR) showed that PVT1 gained moderate value in discriminating HCC patients from normal controls, confirming the results of RT-qPCR. Additionally, the upregulation of PVT1 could promote HCC cell proliferation in vitro and vivo. Based on the competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) theory, the PVT1/miR-424-5p/INCENP axis was finally selected for further research. The in silico prediction revealed that there were complementary sequences between PVT1 and miR-424-5p as well as between miR-424-5p and INCENP. Furthermore, a negative correlation trend was found between miR-424-5p and PVT1 based on RT-qPCR, whereas a positive correlation trend was found between PVT1 and INCENP based on data from TCGA. Also, INCENP small interfering RNA (siRNA) could significantly inhibit cell proliferation and viability. Conclusions: We hypothesized that PVT1 could affect the biological function of HCC cells via targeting miR-424-5p and regulating INCENP. Focusing on the new insight of the PVT1/miR-424-5p/INCENP axis, this study provides a novel perspective for HCC therapeutic strategies.
review-article	CPB492885	Therapeutic Strategies for Targeting IL-33/ST2 Signalling for the Treatment of Inflammatory Diseases Therapeutic Strategies for Targeting IL-33/ST2 Signalling for the Treatment of Inflammatory Diseases Interleukin (IL)-33, a member of the IL-1 family of cytokines, is involved in innate and adaptive immune responses via interaction with its receptor, ST2. Activation of ST2 signalling by IL-33 triggers pleiotropic immune functions in multiple ST2-expressing immune cells, including macrophages, neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, mast cells, type 2 helper T cells, regulatory T cells, and group 2 innate lymphoid cells. IL-33-mediated effector functions contribute to the tissue inflammatory and reparative responses in various organs including lung, skin, kidney, central nerve system, cardiovascular system, and gastrointestinal system. Endogenous IL-33/ ST2 signaling exhibits diverse immune regulatory functions during progression of different diseases. IL-33 likely functions as a disease sensitizer and plays pathological roles in inflamed tissues in allergic disorders that involve hyperreactive immune responses in the context of skin and pulmonary allergy. However, IL-33 also mediates tissue-protective functions during the recovery phase following tissue injury in the central nerve system and gastrointestinal system. Modulation of the IL-33/ST2 axis, therefore, represents a promising strategy for treating immune disorders that involve dysregulation of the cytokine signalling. In the past two decades, therapeutic strategies blocking IL-33/ST2 have been extensively studied for the treatment of diseases in animal models. In this review, the current progress on the development of therapeutic biologics for targeting IL-33/ST2 signalling in inflammatory diseases is summarized.
meta-analysis	CPB493958	Prognostic Role of High Stathmin 1 Expression in Patients with Solid Tumors: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Prognostic Role of High Stathmin 1 Expression in Patients with Solid Tumors: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Several recent studies have demonstrated that Stathmin 1expression may be closely associated with prognosis in patients with various types of cancers. In the present study, we conducted a meta-analysis of all available studies in the English literature to assess the prognostic value of Stathmin 1expression in patients with solid cancers. Methods: The online databases PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science were searched for literature regarding Stathmin 1 and its association with patient outcomes associated with solid cancers. Results: A total of 23 articles including 26 studies that contained 5 335 patients were retrieved and analyzed. Our results indicated that high Stathmin 1 expression yielded a worse overall survival (OS) (hazard ratio [HR] = 2.17, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.81–2.60), disease-free survival (DFS) (HR = 2.46, 95% CI: 2.00–3.02), disease-specific survival (DSS) (HR = 1.98, 95% CI: 1.58– 2.47) and progression-free survival (PFS)/recurrence-free survival (RFS) (HR = 2.09, 95% CI: 1.51–2.89). Furthermore, the association of high Stathmin 1 expression with poor survival was significant even for sub-group analyses of different tumor types, ethnicities, methods used to calculate HRs, detected methods, and analysis types. Conclusion: In summary, this meta-analysis determined that high Stathmin 1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in patients with solid cancers and expression of this protein could be a clinically useful prognostic biomarker.
research-article	CPB494011	"Zinc Supplementation Attenuates Cardiac Remodeling After Experimental Myocardial Infarction Zinc Supplementation Attenuates Cardiac Remodeling After Experimental Myocardial Infarction Background/Aims: The objective of our study was to evaluate the effects of zinc supplementation on cardiac remodeling following acute myocardial infarction in rats. Methods: Animals were subdivided into 4 groups and observed for 3 months: 1) Sham Control; 2) Sham Zinc: Sham animals receiving zinc supplementation; 3) Infarction Control; 4) Infarction Zinc. After the followup period, we studied hypertrophy and ventricular geometry, functional alterations in vivo and in vitro, changes related to collagen, oxidative stress, and inflammation, assessed by echocardiogram, isolated heart study, western blot, flow cytometer, morphometry, and spectrophotometry. Results: Infarction induced a significant worsening of the functional variables. On the other hand, zinc attenuated both systolic and diastolic cardiac dysfunction induced by infarction. Considering the infarct size, there was no difference between the groups. Catalase and superoxide dismutase decreased in infarcted animals, and zinc increased its activity. We found higher expression of collagens I and III in infarcted animals, but there was no effect of zinc supplementation. Likewise, infarcted animals had higher levels of IL-10, but without zinc interference. Nrf-2 values were not different among the groups. Infarction increased the amount of Treg cells in the spleen as well as the amount of total lymphocytes. Zinc increased the amount of CD4+ in infarcted animals, but we did not observe effects in relation to Treg cells. Conclusion: zinc attenuates cardiac remodeling after infarction in rats; this effect is associated with modulation of antioxidant enzymes, but without the involvement of collagens I and III, Nrf-2, IL-10, and Treg cells."
review-article	CPB495329	Development of Inflammatory Immune Response-Related Drugs Based on G Protein-Coupled Receptor Kinase 2 Development of Inflammatory Immune Response-Related Drugs Based on G Protein-Coupled Receptor Kinase 2 G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2), as a vital Ser/Thr kinase, is an important regulatory protein in the inflammatory immune response (IIR) by maintaining the balance between the function of inflammatory immune cells and non-conventional inflammatory immune cells and regulating inflammatory immune cell infiltration, inflammatory cytokine secretion, and the signaling associated with endothelial function. However, the imbalance of GRK2 expression and activity plays an important role in the development of IIR-related diseases, such as hypertension, heart failure, Alzheimer’s disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, insulin resistance, rheumatoid arthritis, thyroid cancer, multiple sclerosis, and liver cancer. Small molecule GRK2 inhibitors, including balanol, Takeda inhibitors, paroxetine and derivatives, M119 and gallein, peptides, RNA aptamers, Raf kinase inhibitory protein, and microRNAs, that can directly inhibit GRK2 kinase activity have been identified by different strategies. This review discusses recent progress in one of the hallmark molecular abnormalities of GRK2 in IIR-related diseases and explores the soft regulation of IIR by innovative drugs reducing the excessive activity of GRK2 to basal levels, without damaging normal physiological function, to ameliorate inflammatory disorders.
meta-analysis	CPB495966	"The Prognostic Significance of NEK2 in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis and Retrospective Cohort Study The Prognostic Significance of NEK2 in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Evidence from a Meta-Analysis and Retrospective Cohort Study Background/Aims: Numerous studies have shown that NIMA-related kinase 2 (NEK2) expression in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissue is associated with survival and clinicopathological features; however, the evidence remains inconclusive. Thus, we aimed to further explore the prognostic and clinicopathological significance of NEK2 expression in HCC using a two-part study consisting of a retrospective cohort study and a meta-analysis. Methods: In the cohort study, NEK2 expression in 206 HCC samples and adjacent normal liver tissues was detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Patients were divided into a high NEK2 expression group and a low NEK2 expression group by the median value of the immunohistochemical scores. The Kaplan–Meier method with the log-rank test was used to analyze survival outcomes in the two groups, and multivariate analysis based on Cox proportional hazard regression models was applied to identify independent prognostic factors. In the meta-analysis, eligible studies were searched in PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, and CNKI databases. STATA version 12.0 (Stata Corporation, College Station, TX) was used for statistical analyses. Results: The IHC results of our cohort study showed higher NEK2 expression in HCC tissues compared with adjacent normal liver tissues. Multivariate analysis revealed that high NEK2 expression was an independent risk factor for poor overall survival (OS) [hazard ratio (HR) = 1.763; 95% CI, 1.060–2.935; P = 0.029] and disease-free survival (DFS) [hazard ratio (HR) = 1.687; 95% CI, 1.102–2.584; P = 0.016] in HCC patients. A total of 11 studies with 1,698 patients were enrolled in the meta-analysis, consisting of 10 studies from the database search and our cohort study. The pooled results revealed that high NEK2 expression correlated closely with poor OS among HCC patients (HR = 1.47; 95% CI, 1.21–1.80; P &"
research-article	CRD441695	Dyrk1A-ASF-CaMKIIδ Signaling Is Involved in Valsartan Inhibition of Cardiac Hypertrophy in Renovascular Hypertensive Rats Dyrk1A-ASF-CaMKIIδ Signaling Is Involved in Valsartan Inhibition of Cardiac Hypertrophy in Renovascular Hypertensive Rats Objectives: It is known that the expression, activity and alternative splicing of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIδ (CaMKIIδ) are dysregulated in the cardiac remodeling process. Recently, we found a further signaling pathway, by which dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A) regulates the alternative splicing of CaMKIIδ via the alternative splicing factor (ASF), i.e. Dyrk1A-ASF-CaMKIIδ. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether Dyrk1A-ASF-CaMKIIδ signaling was involved in valsartan inhibition of cardiac hypertrophy in renovascular hypertensive rats. Methods: Rats were subjected to two kidney-one clip (2K1C) surgery and then treated with valsartan (30 mg/kg/day) for 8 weeks. Hypertrophic parameter analysis was then performed. Western blot analysis was used to determine the protein expression of Dyrk1A and ASF and RT-PCR was used to analyze the alternative splicing of CaMKIIδ in the left ventricular (LV) sample. Results: Valsartan attenuated cardiac hypertrophy in 2K1C rats but without impairment of cardiac systolic function. Increased protein expression of Dyrk1A and decreased protein expression of ASF were observed in the LV sample of 2K1C rats. Treatment of 2K1C rats with valsartan reversed the changes in Dyrk1A and ASF expression in the LV sample. Valsartan adjusted the 2K1C-induced imbalance in alternative splicing of CaMKIIδ by upregulating the mRNA expression of CaMKIIδC and downregulating the mRNA expression of CaMKIIδA and CaMKIIδB. Conclusions: Valsartan inhibition of cardiac hypertrophy in renovascular hypertensive rats was mediated, at least partly, by Dyrk1A-ASF-CaMKIIδ signaling.
research-article	CRD464111	"Inverse Correlation of Venous Brain Natriuretic Peptide Levels with Body Mass Index Is due to Decreased Production Inverse Correlation of Venous Brain Natriuretic Peptide Levels with Body Mass Index Is due to Decreased Production Objective: The aim of this paper was to study the association between body mass index (BMI) and coronary sinus (CS) brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels in patients with heart failure and reduced systolic function (HFrEF). Background: There is an inverse relationship between systemic venous BNP (V-BNP) levels and BMI in patients with HFrEF. It is unclear whether this finding is due to decreased production or due to an increased metabolism of BNP. Since CS-BNP levels reflect BNP production, we hypothesized that assessing the correlation of CS-BNP levels with BMI would provide insight into the mechanism of this inverse relationship of V-BNP and BMI. Methods: We prospectively enrolled 54 subjects with HFrEF who were to undergo cardiac resynchronization device implantation. CS-BNP, V-BNP, and arterial BNP (A-BNP) levels were measured during the implant procedure. Subjects were divided into 2 groups based on their BMI (group 1: BMI &lt;30 and group 2: BMI ≥30). Results: The mean age of the overall study group was 64 ± 10 years. Average BMI for group 1 was 25.8 ± 2.8 and 36.8 ± 4.6 for group 2 (p &lt; 0.03). A history of hypertension was present in 55% (n = 26) of the subjects, while diabetes was reported in 31% (n = 15). Serum creatinine was 1.0 ± 0.2 mg/dL and TSH 2.1 ± 1.4 mIU/L. 79% of the subjects were receiving β-blockers, while 94% were receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers. The mean CS-BNP, V-BNP, and A-BNP levels in group 2 were significantly lower than in group 1 (286.2 ± 170.5 vs. 417.5 ± 247.5 pg/mL, p = 0.04; 126.6 ± 32.5 vs. 228 ± 96.4 pg/mL, p = 0.01; and 151.9 ± 28.6 vs. 242 ± 88.8 pg/mL, p = 0.04, respectively). Univariate analysis and multivariate regression adjusted for age, diabetes mellitus, sex, glomerular filtration rate, and left atrial size confirmed BMI as an independent predictor of CS-BNP levels (β = -0.372, p = 0. 03) in our study. Conclusions: In this study, we demonstrate an inverse relationship between CS-BNP levels and BMI in patients with HFrEF. These findings suggest that the previously established inverse relationship between V-BNP and BMI is due to a decreased cardiac production of BNP in obese patients rather than from increased peripheral metabolism."
research-article	CRE366505	"Changes in Dental Plaque Microbial Richness and Oral Behavioral Habits during Caries Development in Young Chinese Children Changes in Dental Plaque Microbial Richness and Oral Behavioral Habits during Caries Development in Young Chinese Children Objective: To detect changes in the microbial richness of dental plaque and oral behaviors during caries development in young Chinese children. Methods: Supragingival plaque samples and a survey of oral behaviors of 130 children aged 3 at baseline were analyzed at 6 months and 12 months. Total DNA was isolated from all samples and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis was conducted. Results: In the follow-up, 44 children had caries or cavity fillings at 6 months, a further 28 children had caries or cavity fillings at 12 months. The other 58 children remained caries-free at 12 months. According to the changes in caries status at the 12-month follow-up, all participants were divided into three groups: caries-free, caries at 6 months and caries at 12 months. The changes in oral behaviors during the 12-month follow-up were not significantly different in the three groups. The frequency of eating sweets and eating sweets before sleeping was significantly different among the three groups at baseline. At baseline, the average detectable bands of caries in the 12-month caries group were similar to those of the caries-free group; both of them were higher than that of the 6-month caries group. At 6 months, the average detectable bands of the 12-month caries group were significantly lower than that of the caries-free group although the children of the 12-month caries group were caries-free at that time. Conclusions: For young Chinese children, the high frequency of eating sweets and eating sweets before sleeping are risk factors of caries onset, and the decrease in microbial richness could occur 6 months before the onset of caries."
review-article	CTO368188	Mesenchymal Stem Cells as a Source of Schwann Cells: Their Anticipated Use in Peripheral Nerve Regeneration Mesenchymal Stem Cells as a Source of Schwann Cells: Their Anticipated Use in Peripheral Nerve Regeneration Schwann cells form myelin, sustain axons and provide the microenvironment for nerve fibers, thereby playing a key role in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Schwann cells also provide support for the damaged PNS by producing factors that strongly promote axonal regrowth and contribute to remyelination, which is crucial for the recovery of neural function. These advantages are not confined to the PNS and also apply to the central nervous system. Many diseases, including peripheral nerve injury, neuropathy, multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injury, are targets for Schwann cell therapy. The collection of Schwann cells, however, causes new damage to other peripheral nerve segments. Furthermore, the doubling time of Schwann cells is not very fast, and thus adequate amounts of Schwann cells for clinical use cannot be collected within a reasonable amount of time. Mesenchymal stem cells, which are highly proliferative, are easily accessible from various types of mesenchymal tissues, such as the bone marrow, umbilical cord and fat tissue. Because these cells have the ability to cross oligolineage boundaries between mesodermal to ectodermal lineages, they are capable of differentiating into Schwann cells with step-by-step cytokine stimulation. In this review, we summarize the properties of mesenchymal stem cell-derived Schwann cells, which are comparable to authentic Schwann cells, and discuss future perspectives.
review-article	CTO446646	"Tissue Engineering Approaches to Modulate the Inflammatory Milieu following Spinal Cord Injury Tissue Engineering Approaches to Modulate the Inflammatory Milieu following Spinal Cord Injury Tissue engineering strategies have shown promise in promoting healing and regeneration after spinal cord injury (SCI); however, these strategies are limited by inflammation and the immune response. Infiltration of cells of the innate and adaptive immune responses and the inflammation that follows cause secondary damage adjacent to the injury, increased scarring, and a potently inhibitory environment for the regeneration of damaged neurons. While the inflammation that ensues is typically associated with limited regeneration, the immune response is a crucial element in the closing of the blood-brain barrier, minimizing the spread of injury, and initiating healing. This review summarizes the strategies that have been developed to modulate the immune response towards an anti-inflammatory environment that is permissive to the regeneration of neurons, glia, and parenchyma. We focus on the use of biomaterials, biologically active molecules, gene therapy, nanoparticles, and stem cells to modulate the immune response, and illustrate concepts for future therapies. Current clinical treatments for SCI are limited to systemic hypothermia or methylprednisolone, which both act by systemically mitigating the effects of immune response but have marginal efficacy. Herein, we discuss emerging research strategies to further enhance these clinical treatments by directly targeting specific aspects of the immune response."
review-article	CTO479924	The Peritoneum: Health, Disease, and Perspectives regarding Tissue Engineering and Cell Therapies The Peritoneum: Health, Disease, and Perspectives regarding Tissue Engineering and Cell Therapies There are several pathologies associated with the peritoneum, such as mesothelioma and peritonitis. Moreover, the peritoneum is widely used in ultrafiltration procedures, i.e., peritoneal dialysis, presenting advantages over hemodialysis. On the other hand, ultrafiltration failure may lead to dialysis-induced fibrosis and hypervolemia. Therefore, the pathophysiological study of this tissue is of extreme biomedical importance. Studies investigating the biology of the cells dwelling in the peritoneum wall provide evidence of their plasticity and progenitor features. For instance, both mesothelial and submesothelial cells present characteristics similar to mesenchymal stem cells, including osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation potential, support of extramedullary hematopoiesis, modulation of inflammatory responses, and regulation of tumor progression. Indeed, the participation of each cell type in peritoneal pathological and physiological phenomena is still under debate, especially regarding a possible differentiation pathway connecting these peritoneal cells. The primary aim of this review is to raise this discussion. In order to do so, we will firstly provide an overview of the peritoneum anatomy, histology, and ontology, and finally we will address how a better understanding of peritoneal cell biology may contribute to future cell therapy and tissue engineering approaches.
research-article	CTO481167	"Changes in the Proliferation/Apoptosis Balance in the Bovine Ovary: A Key Early Event in Follicular Persistence Changes in the Proliferation/Apoptosis Balance in the Bovine Ovary: A Key Early Event in Follicular Persistence The objective of this work was to evaluate proliferation and apoptosis in the bovine ovary in a model of follicular persistence induced by low levels of progesterone to detect incipient changes during cystic ovarian disease development on the expected day of ovulation (day 0) and after 5, 10, and 15 days of follicular persistence. We analyzed cell proliferation by evaluating the expression of Ki-67 and apoptosis by evaluating caspase-3, BAX, and BCL2 expression. Proliferation was similar in the granulosa and theca cells of antral follicles in the P0 group (treated with progesterone up to the expected day of ovulation) and in the control group. A decrease in cell proliferation was detected after 5 days of persistence (P5) in relation to P0 (p &lt; 0.05). Similar changes were found in the granulosa cells of the persistent follicles in relation to the control group (p &lt; 0.05). Caspase-3 expression was similar in granulosa cells of antral follicles at early stages of persistence, with an increase after 15 days of persistence (p &lt; 0.05). In the granulosa cells of group P10 (10 days of persistence), caspase-3 expression was reduced relative to that of antral follicles from the control group (p &lt; 0.05). BCL2 expression was higher in granulosa cells of the persistent follicles of group P0 relative to the control follicles, with no changes in BAX expression, which was increased in persistent follicles of group P15 (p &lt; 0.05). Similar results were observed in theca cells at initial stages of persistence. The results show that, initially, proliferation is maintained with low apoptosis and an increase in cell survival."
review-article	CTO485501	Human Embryonic Kidney 293 Cells: A Vehicle for Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing, Structural Biology, and Electrophysiology Human Embryonic Kidney 293 Cells: A Vehicle for Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing, Structural Biology, and Electrophysiology Mammalian cells, e.g., CHO, BHK, HEK293, HT-1080, and NS0 cells, represent important manufacturing platforms in bioengineering. They are widely used for the production of recombinant therapeutic proteins, vaccines, anticancer agents, and other clinically relevant drugs. HEK293 (human embryonic kidney 293) cells and their derived cell lines provide an attractive heterologous system for the development of recombinant proteins or adenovirus productions, not least due to their human-like posttranslational modification of protein molecules to provide the desired biological activity. Secondly, they also exhibit high transfection efficiency yielding high-quality recombinant proteins. They are easy to maintain and express with high fidelity membrane proteins, such as ion channels and transporters, and thus are attractive for structural biology and electrophysiology studies. In this article, we review the literature on HEK293 cells regarding their origins but also stress their advancements into the different cell lines engineered and discuss some significant aspects which make them versatile systems for biopharmaceutical manufacturing, drug screening, structural biology research, and electrophysiology applications.
case-report	CUR442861	Painful Bladder Syndrome: An Unusual Presentation in a Case of Upper Tract Fungus Balls Painful Bladder Syndrome: An Unusual Presentation in a Case of Upper Tract Fungus Balls Urinary tract fungus balls are a rare pathologic entity which may be asymptomatic or have variable presentations. To date, there have been no documented cases of fungus balls presenting as painful bladder syndrome. Painful bladder syndrome is a constellation of symptoms which may include pelvic pain, urgency and frequency not explained by other causes. Here, we present the first case of these two entities concurrently. Our patient had a longstanding history of diabetes, nephrolithiasis and recurrent urinary tract infections. He presented with symptoms of painful bladder syndrome and work-up revealed filling defects within the renal collecting system concerning for malignancy. Subsequent ureteroscopy revealed dense white debris consistent with candida fungus balls. Following clearance of the debris and antifungal therapy, our patient has remained asymptomatic.
case-report	CUR447141	Delayed Cytoreductive Nephrectomy Following Three Years of Targeted Therapy for Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Delayed Cytoreductive Nephrectomy Following Three Years of Targeted Therapy for Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma We present a 55-year-old male, with good performance status who was diagnosed with a case of metastatic renal cell carcinoma following a pathologic femur fracture. Despite good performance status, multifocal metastases and poor-prognostic features portended a grim prognosis with predicted overall survival of less than nine months. On initial presentation, he was excluded from cytoreductive nephrectomy based on brain metastasis and interleukin-2 was not pursued as the primary tumor was to be left in situ. The patient was reconsidered for cytoreductive nephrectomy after sustained response to fifth line targeted therapies with shrinkage of tumor burden. The post-operative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged home on postoperative day one. Temsirolimus was resumed one week after surgery and the patient reported returning to his normal activities at the two week follow-up visit. We highlight important clinical features of metastatic renal cell carcinoma, the surgical considerations for cytoreductive nephrectomy and the detailed multidisciplinary care the patient received throughout this case report.
case-report	CUR447183	Glomus Tumor of the Scrotum: A Case Report and Mini-Review Glomus Tumor of the Scrotum: A Case Report and Mini-Review Glomus tumor in the genital area is extremely rare, with an extensive search in the medical literature revealing only 1 case arising in the scrotum. They can be easily mistaken, both clinically and radiologically, for skin neoplasms or primary testicular tumors involving the scrotum. This report presents a case of a 54-year-old man who presented with a painful right scrotal swelling. Ultrasound suggested the possibility of an epidermal inclusion cyst. The excised mass was diagnosed as a benign glomus tumor. To the best of our knowledge, this is the second case of glomus tumor of the scrotum described in the literature. This report expands the differential diagnoses of scrotal neoplasms. Furthermore, essential guidelines necessary to distinguish glomus tumor from other lesions in the scrotum are discussed.
review-article	DDI374099	"Pathophysiology and a Rational Basis of Therapy Pathophysiology and a Rational Basis of Therapy Portal hypertension is a common complication of chronic liver disease. Its relevance comes from the fact that it determines most complications leading to death or liver transplantation in patients with cirrhosis of the liver: bleeding from esophageal or gastric varices, ascites and renal dysfunction, sepsis and hepatic encephalopathy. Portal hypertension results from increased resistance to portal blood flow through the cirrhotic liver. This is caused by two mechanisms: (1) distortion of the liver vascular architecture due to the liver disease causing structural abnormalities (nodule formation, remodeling of liver sinusoids, fibrosis, angiogenesis and vascular occlusion), and (2) increased hepatic vascular tone due to sinusoidal endothelial dysfunction, which results in a defective production of endogenous vasodilators, mainly nitric oxide (NO), and increased production of vasoconstrictors (thromboxane A2, cysteinyl leukotrienes, angiotensin II, endothelins and an activated adrenergic system). Hepatic endothelial dysfunction occurs early in the course of chronic liver disease as a consequence of inflammation and oxidative stress, and determines loss of the normal phenotype of liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) that become proliferative, prothrombotic, proinflammatory and vasoconstrictor. The cross-talk between LSECs and hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induces activation of the latter, which in turn proliferate, migrate and increase collagen deposition around the sinusoids, contributing to fibrogenesis, architectural disruption and angiogenesis, which further increase the hepatic vascular resistance and worsen liver failure by interfering with the blood perfusion of the liver parenchyma. An additional factor further worsening portal hypertension is an increased blood flow through the portal system due to splanchnic vasodilatation. This is an adaptive response to decreased effective hepatocyte perfusion, and is maximal once portal pressure has increased sufficiently to promote the development of intrahepatic shunts and portal-systemic collaterals, including varices, through which portal blood flow bypasses the liver. In human portal hypertension collateralization and hyperdynamic circulation start at a portal pressure gradient &gt;10 mm Hg. Rational therapy for portal hypertension aims at correcting these pathophysiological abnormalities: liver injury, fibrogenesis, increased hepatic vascular tone and splanchnic vasodilatation. Continuing liver injury may be counteracted specifically by etiological treatments (the best example being the direct-acting antivirals for hepatitis C viral infection), while architectural disruption and fibrosis can be ameliorated by a variety of antifibrotic drugs and antiangiogenic strategies. Several drugs in this category are currently under investigation in phase II-III randomized controlled trials. Sinusoidal endothelial dysfunction is ameliorated by statins as well as by other drugs increasing NO availability. It is of note that simvastatin has already been proven to be clinically effective in two randomized controlled trials. Splanchnic hyperemia can be counteracted by nonselective β-blockers (NSBBs), vasopressin analogs and somatostatin analogs, drugs that until recently were the only available treatments for portal hypertension, but that are not very effective in the initial stages of cirrhosis. There is experimental and clinical evidence indicating that a more effective reduction of portal pressure is obtained by combining agents acting on these different pathways. It is likely that the treatment of portal hypertension will evolve to use etiological treatments together with antifibrotic agents and/or drugs improving sinusoidal endothelial function in the initial stages of cirrhosis (preprimary prophylaxis), while NSBBs will be added in advanced stages of the disease."
review-article	DDI444562	Molecular Pathogenesis and Current Therapy in Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Molecular Pathogenesis and Current Therapy in Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) comprises one of the most rapidly evolving cancer types. An underlying chronic inflammatory liver disease that precedes liver cancer development for several decades and creates a pro-oncogenic microenvironment frequently impairs progress in therapeutic approaches. Depending on the cellular target of malignant transformation, a large spectrum of molecular and morphological patterns is observed. As such, it is crucial to advance our existing understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of iCCA, particularly its genomic heterogeneity, to improve current clinical strategies and patient outcome. This was achieved for other cancers, such as breast carcinoma, facilitated by the delineation of patient subsets and of precision therapies. In iCCA, many questions persevere as to the evolutionary process and cellular origin of the initial transforming event, the context of tumor plasticity and the causative features driving the disease. Molecular profiling and pathological techniques have begun to underline persistent alterations that may trigger inherited drug resistance (a hallmark of hepatobiliary and pancreatic cancers), metastasis and disease recurrence. In this review, we will focus on the key molecular achievements that are currently advancing the characterization and stratification of iCCA. We will discuss current clinical practice and how genomic achievements may advance diagnosis and therapy as well as ultimately improve patient outcome.
research-article	DDI486893	B1a Lymphocytes (CD19+CD5+) Deficiency in Patients with Crohn’s Disease and Its Relation with Disease Severity B1a Lymphocytes (CD19+CD5+) Deficiency in Patients with Crohn’s Disease and Its Relation with Disease Severity Background/Aims: B1a cells (CD19+CD5+) are considered elements of the innate immune system. The aim of this study was to evaluate the frequency of B1a cells in the peripheral blood of patients with Crohn’s disease (CD) and its relation with disease severity. Methods: In this prospective study, a total of 128 subjects (64 CD patients and 64 healthy controls) were studied. B1a cells in peripheral blood, CD Activity Index, and Simple Endoscopic Score of B1a cells were studied. Results: A significant decrease of B1a cells in peripheral blood was observed in patients with CD versus controls (p = 0.002), especially in perforating or penetrating patterns (p = 0.017). A lower frequency of B1a cells is related to increased endoscopic severity (Spearman’s Rho: –0.559, p = 0.004). The mean frequency of B1a cells in patients with pre- and post-study surgery was significantly lower than that in patients who did not undergo surgery (p = 0.050 and p = 0.026, respectively). Conclusions: The B1a cell count in peripheral blood is lower in CD patients. This decrease is directly related to the severity of the disease (penetrating or perforating, Simple Endoscopy Score and surgery complication). These results pointed to the fact that B1a cells play an important role in immune protection in CD.
review-article	DEM444791	"A Review of Pain Prevalence in Alzheimer's, Vascular, Frontotemporal and Lewy Body Dementias A Review of Pain Prevalence in Alzheimer's, Vascular, Frontotemporal and Lewy Body Dementias Background: Numerous studies have reported on pain in dementia. It has been hypothesized that pain perception differs between dementia subtypes, and therefore, the prevalence of pain differs between dementia subtypes. However, there remains a paucity of evidence on the differences in the prevalence of pain in different dementia subtypes. This review aimed to determine the prevalence of pain for the major dementia subtypes: Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia (VaD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Summary: We found 10 studies that met our inclusion criteria. Most of these studies reported on AD; studies reporting the prevalence of pain in people with DLB were scarce, and for FTD, we found no studies. The sample-weighted prevalence of pain could only be calculated for AD, VaD and mixed dementia: AD 45.8% (95% confidence interval, CI: 33.4-58.5%), VaD 56.2% (95% CI: 47.7-64.4%) and mixed dementia 53.9% (95% CI: 37.4-70.1%). Key Messages: Studies investigating the prevalence of pain in dementia subtypes were scarce; however, we found a high prevalence of pain in dementia without significant differences between the dementia subtypes. More studies are required to draw firm conclusions on the differences in the prevalence of pain between dementia subtypes."
systematic-review	DEM490851	Cognitive Therapy for Dementia Patients: A Systematic Review Cognitive Therapy for Dementia Patients: A Systematic Review Background: Cognitive therapy is a well-established intervention for treating elderly suffering from dementia. In particular, reality orientation and skills training seem to be effective interventions for reversing cognitive impairment among elderly, although findings are inconclusive. Therefore, a systematic update of the existing evidence of cognitive therapy for people suffering from dementia is needed. Aim: To review existing scientific evidence regarding the efficacy of cognitive therapies for elderly suffering from dementia. Methods: Studies were retrieved from several bibliographic databases (January 2009 to December 2017) with prespecified selection criteria, data extraction, and methodological quality assessment. Results: In total, 10 reality orientation, 25 skills training, and 12 mixed trials were identified as meeting the inclusion criteria and were systematically reviewed. Results from reality orientation trials showed minor effects for cognitive assessments, while skills training trials and mixed trials showed contradicting effects on cognition. Effects on other outcomes (e.g., daily functioning, depression, language) were limited or not found. Conclusions: Skills training trials and mixed trials seem to affect cognitive impairment in a positive way, although the results are inconclusive. Comparison between studies was difficult due to differences in form of intervention. Because findings are inconclusive, more structuralized and comparable randomized controlled trials are needed.
systematic-review	DEM494921	"Effects of Light Treatment on Sleep, Cognition, Mood, and Behavior in Alzheimer’s Disease: A Systematic Review Effects of Light Treatment on Sleep, Cognition, Mood, and Behavior in Alzheimer’s Disease: A Systematic Review Background: Bright light treatment is a therapeutic intervention mainly used to treat sleep and circadian disturbances in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) patients. Recently, a handful of studies also focused on the effect on cognition and behavior. Conflicting findings are reported in the literature, and no definite conclusions have been drawn about its specific therapeutic effect. Summary: The aim of this review is to provide a critical evaluation of available evidence in this field, highlighting the specific characteristics of effective bright light treatment. Eligible studies were required to assess at least one of the following outcome measures: sleep, cognition, mood, and/or behavior (e.g., depression, agitation). A total of 32 articles were included in this systematic review and identified as research intervention studies about light treatment in AD. The quality of the papers was evaluated based on the US Preventive Service Task Force guidelines. Key Messages: Overall, the current literature suggests that the effects of light treatment in AD patients are mixed and may be influenced by several factors, but with a general trend toward a positive effect. Bright light seems to be a promising intervention treatment without significant adverse effects; therefore, further well-designed randomized controlled trials are needed taking into account the highlighted recommendations."
systematic-review	DIB486347	"Use of Mobile Devices to Measure Outcomes in Clinical Research, 2010–2016: A Systematic Literature Review Use of Mobile Devices to Measure Outcomes in Clinical Research, 2010–2016: A Systematic Literature Review Background: The use of mobile devices in clinical research has advanced substantially in recent years due to the rapid pace of technology development. With an overall aim of informing the future use of mobile devices in interventional clinical research to measure primary outcomes, we conducted a systematic review of the use of and clinical outcomes measured by mobile devices (mobile outcomes) in observational and interventional clinical research. Method: We conducted a PubMed search using a range of search terms to retrieve peer-reviewed articles on clinical research published between January 2010 and May 2016 in which mobile devices were used to measure study outcomes. We screened each publication for specific inclusion and exclusion criteria. We then identified and qualitatively summarized the use of mobile outcome assessments in clinical research, including the type and design of the study, therapeutic focus, type of mobile device(s) used, and specific mobile outcomes reported. Results: The search retrieved 2,530 potential articles of interest. After screening, 88 publications remained. Twenty-five percent of the publications (n = 22) described mobile outcomes used in interventional research, and the rest (n = 66) described observational clinical research. Thirteen therapeutic areas were represented. Five categories of mobile devices were identified: (1) inertial sensors, (2) biosensors, (3) pressure sensors and walkways, (4) medication adherence monitors, and (5) location monitors; inertial sensors/accelerometers were most common (reported in 86% of the publications). Among the variety of mobile outcomes, various assessments of physical activity were most common (reported in 74% of the publications). Other mobile outcomes included assessments of sleep, mobility, and pill adherence, as well as biomarkers assessed using a mobile device, including cardiac measures, glucose, gastric reflux, respiratory measures, and intensity of head-related injury. Conclusion: Mobile devices are being widely used in clinical research to assess outcomes, although their use in interventional research to assess therapeutic effectiveness is limited. For mobile devices to be used more frequently in pivotal interventional research – such as trials informing regulatory decision-making – more focus should be placed on: (1) consolidating the evidence supporting the clinical meaningfulness of specific mobile outcomes, and (2) standardizing the use of mobile devices in clinical research to measure specific mobile outcomes (e.g., data capture frequencies, placement of device). To that aim, this manuscript offers a broad overview of the various mobile outcome assessments currently used in observational and interventional research, and categorizes and consolidates this information for researchers interested in using mobile devices to assess outcomes in interventional research."
meta-analysis	DIG485027	"Association between Toll-Like Receptor 4 T399I Gene Polymorphism and the Susceptibility to Crohn’s Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Case-Control Studies Association between Toll-Like Receptor 4 T399I Gene Polymorphism and the Susceptibility to Crohn’s Disease: A Meta-Analysis of Case-Control Studies Background/Aims: This article was undertaken to investigate the association of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) polymorphism (Thr399Ile) and risk of Crohn’s disease (CD) by performing a meta-analysis. Methods: Articles were chosen based on PubMed, Embase, China National Knowledge Internet, and Chinese Wanfang databases (up to 12th October 2016). Specific inclusion criteria were used to evaluate articles. Meta-analysis was performed by using a random or fixed effect model. Fifteen eligible case-control studies were finally included into this meta-analysis. We estimated the summary OR with its corresponding 95% CI to assess the association. Results: Summary results of this meta-analysis showed a moderate association between the TLR4 T399I polymorphism and the risk of CD (allele model: OR 1.26, 95% CI 1.06–1.50, p = 0.009; heterozygote model: OR 1.36, 95% CI 1.11–1.66, p = 0.003; dominant model: OR 1.35, 95% CI 1.10–1.64, p = 0.004; homozygote model: OR 1.08, 95% CI 0.44–2.64, p = 0.866; recessive model: OR 0.97, 95% CI 0.40–2.35, p = 0.946). Stratified analysis on geographical area, ethnicity, and genotypic methods suggested that the polymorphism was associated with increased risk of CD in Asia and Asians, and “T” allele only moderately increased CD risk within polymerase chain reaction-restricted fragment length polymorphism. Conclusions: Our meta-analysis suggests that TLR4 T399I polymorphism is moderately associated with susceptibility to CD, and more studies are needed to confirm our conclusion."
review-article	DIG485734	Old and New Gut Hormone, Gastrin and Acid Suppressive Therapy Old and New Gut Hormone, Gastrin and Acid Suppressive Therapy Gastrin acts physiologically as a gut hormone to stimulate acid secretion after meal and as a cell-growth factor of oxyntic mucosa. Increase in serum gastrin level happens under various conditions including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, antral G cell hyperplasia, autoimmune gastritis, atrophic gastritis, renal failure, vagotomy, Helicobacter pylori infection and acid suppressive therapy. As acid suppressive therapy causes hypergastrinemia, the association between acid suppressive therapy and gastric neuroendocrine cell tumor (NET) has been discussed during the past 30 years. In this review article, the definition of hypergastrinemia and the related disorders including acid suppressive therapy and gastric NET are discussed.
research-article	DNE469659	Changes in Sleep Architecture under Sustained Pain in Adult Male Rats Subjected to Neonatal Short-Lasting Local Inflammatory Insult Changes in Sleep Architecture under Sustained Pain in Adult Male Rats Subjected to Neonatal Short-Lasting Local Inflammatory Insult Neonatal, short-lasting, local, nociceptive insult by carrageenan can cause long-term alterations in somatosensory and neurohumoral systems. We previously revealed hyporesponsiveness of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) after painful stimulation of adult rats in a neonatal carrageenan-induced pain model. Sleep disturbance has been highly correlated with pain and ANS activity. In the present study, adult rats that had received an intraplantar injection of carrageenan on postnatal day 1 were investigated to determine if there were alterations in their sleep architecture upon the stimulation of pain. Polysomnographic and heart rate variability recordings were carried out, with a wireless transmission of data, for 24 h under baseline conditions and after an intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant to induce sustained nociception. Increased active awake (AW) and decreased quiet sleep (QS) and paradoxical sleep (PS) times were noted in the control animals. In the carrageenan-treated rats, the AW time increased but with decreased alertness, as revealed by decreases in beta and increases in theta power. The QS time did not decrease. The PS time decreased during the first 12 h, then increased during the following 12 h, suggesting an early rebound of formerly deprived PS time. Sympathetic activation under sustained pain was not apparent in any stage of sleep in carrageenan-treated rats and was even suppressed in AW time. An impaired sympathetic reaction to pain may have contributed to the atypical changes in sleep architecture in these rats. In conclusion, pain in early life has a long-term effect on the cardiovascular-autonomic-electroencephalographic responses to pain later in life. The physiological relevance of these results remains undetermined.
review-article	DOP459707	"Application of Clinical Trial Results to Clinical Practice Application of Clinical Trial Results to Clinical Practice Two critical questions one must answer as one applies the results of a clinical trial to clinical practice are: (1) Regardless of whether the trial result is likely to be replicated or reproduced in a second large-scale trial, are the results likely to be reproduced in one's practice? (2) Regardless of whether the experimental treatment was better than the alternative on average for a population of patients, are the results clinically important for a given patient in one's practice? To determine if a study result is likely to be reproduced in one's clinical practice, it may be helpful to answer 5 questions: (1) Have steps been taken to minimize bias? (2) Is the result likely due to the treatment? (3) Is the result unlikely due to chance? (4) Is the study population representative of one's patients? (5) Is the totality of evidence consistent? If the answer to all 5 questions is “yes,” then we posit that the trial result is likely to be reproduced in one's practice. If not, the likelihood of reproducibility is low. If the answer is yes to all questions except the last, then reproducibility in one's practice is not clear and depends on the strength of the prior versus the current evidence. If the prior evidence is strong, such as multiple pivotal randomized clinical trials, and if the current trial result is not consistent with the previous studies, then the current result may not be reproduced in one's practice. To determine if a study result is clinically important, a 3-step approach is suggested. Step 1. Decide, a priori, what a clinically meaningful difference between 2 treatments would be. This choice defines regions of beneficial, harmful, and trivial outcomes. Step 2. Identify the confidence intervals (CIs). Determine whether the 95% CI mostly includes the range of clinically beneficial outcomes and lies outside the range of clinically harmful outcomes. If these conditions are met, the result is probably clinically important, but the result may or may not be statistically significant. Put the CIs and the regions of benefit/harm together to make a decision about clinically important effects. Step 3. Assess the proportion of eyes with clinically meaningful changes in vision. The proportion of “responders” among patients receiving a given treatment reflects the likelihood of one's patient having a clinically meaningful response to the treatment. In summary, not all statistically significant results are reproduced, even those of carefully designed clinical trials. Determining if a study result is likely to be reproduced in one's practice is even more problematic. The 5-question test may help in this regard. The 5-question test attempts to assess whether steps have been taken to: minimize bias; avoid confounding; ensure adequate statistical power to support precision in the estimates of population parameters; insure external validity of the trial result; and determine whether there is a convergence of evidence consistent with the trial's major findings. To determine if a statistically significant result is likely to be clinically important, a 3-step approach may be useful, focusing on CIs and the proportion of eyes with clinically meaningful changes in vision. Application of clinical trial results to clinical practice requires critical analysis of the extant literature and good clinical judgment."
case-report	DPA445479	"Slowly Growing Nodule on the Trunk: Cutaneous Granular Cell Tumor Slowly Growing Nodule on the Trunk: Cutaneous Granular Cell Tumor Granular cell tumor (GCT) is a rare benign neoplasm of the skin that accounts for 0.5% of all soft-tissue tumors. The tumor mostly presents with a symptomatic slowly growing solitary nodule and overlying normal skin; therefore, it is not always considered in the differential diagnosis. Here, we report a 58-year-old female patient who presented with a 4-year history of a slowly growing mass, with a dimension of 5 × 4 cm on her left waist, diagnosed as a GCT at the histopathological examination. The neoplastic cells had centrally located nuclei and granular eosinophilic cytoplasm and stained positively for S100, neuron-specific enolase, and CD68 antibodies. Fifteen months after surgery, the patient still showed no signs of local recurrence or metastases. Although a large diameter is a feature of malignant GCT, our case with cutaneous GCT was localized on the trunk and did not present malignant features clinically and histopathologically."
systematic-review	DRM490460	Patient-Reported Outcome Measures for Pediatric Psoriasis: A Systematic Review and Critical Appraisal from International Dermatology Outcome Measures (IDEOM) Patient-Reported Outcome Measures for Pediatric Psoriasis: A Systematic Review and Critical Appraisal from International Dermatology Outcome Measures (IDEOM) Childhood onset psoriasis has a profound impact on the development and quality of life of pediatric patients. Consequently, validated patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) for pediatric psoriasis are vital to patient care. We sought to critically appraise the literature on the measurement properties of PROMs used in the pediatric psoriasis population. We performed a 2-stage systematic literature synthesis in MEDLINE (1950–2017) and EMBASE (1947–2017) to identify PROMs and studies evaluating their measurement properties. Analysis of studies followed the COnsensus-based Standards for the selection of health Measurement INstruments (COSMIN) methodology to inform a best evidence synthesis. From 1,128 articles, we identified 29 PROMs. Subsequently, we identified 8 studies evaluating the measurement properties of 7 instruments. Among these instruments, the Simplified Psoriasis Index (SPI) achieved a positive rating for criterion validity, the Dutch version of the Children’s Dermatology Life Quality Index (CDLQI) achieved a positive rating for hypothesis testing, and the Swedish version of the CDLQI achieved a negative rating for hypothesis testing. All other assessed measurement properties received indeterminate or unknown ratings due to flaws in study design. PROMs are paramount to the management of pediatric psoriasis. This synthesis emphasizes the critical need for additional studies to further describe the measurement properties of PROMs used in pediatric psoriasis and identify validated, standardized measures for use in clinical practice and research.
research-article	DRM492054	"Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke and Prevalence of Atopic Dermatitis among Adolescents in Kuwait Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke and Prevalence of Atopic Dermatitis among Adolescents in Kuwait Background: This study aimed to (i) assess the prevalence of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) at homes, (ii) assess the prevalence of atopic dermatitis and (iii) evaluate the association between ETS exposure and atopic dermatitis status among adolescents. Methods: During October 2015, a cross-sectional study design was implemented using a self-administered, modified version of the ISAAC (International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood) questionnaire among students enrolled in nine high schools of one of the six governorates of Kuwait. Prevalence of ETS exposure at home (1 or more smokers at home vs. none) and atopic dermatitis were computed. A multivariable log-binomial regression model was used to evaluate the adjusted association between ETS exposure and atopic dermatitis. Results: Of 800 invited students, 746 (93.3%) participated, of whom 74.8% were Kuwaiti and 50.1% were female with a mean (SD) age of 16.8 (0.68) years. Prevalence of ETS exposure at home was 54%. Prevalence of atopic dermatitis was 14.9%. A final multivariable log-binomial regression model showed that compared with the adolescents free from atopic dermatitis, adolescents with atopic dermatitis were significantly more likely to have had ETS exposure at home (adjusted prevalence ratio = 1.49; 95% CI: 1.03–2.14; p = 0.034) or tended to be female (adjusted prevalence ratio = 1.42; 95% CI: 0.99–2.03; p = 0.054). Conclusions: A high prevalence of ETS exposure at home among adolescents was recorded. ETS exposure and female gender were significantly associated with atopic dermatitis status. Intervention fostering voluntary adoption of a smoke-free home rule may help protect the adolescents against ETS exposure and alleviate the menace of associated morbidity."
systematic-review	DSU490111	Liver Resection for Colorectal Hepatic Metastases after Systemic Chemotherapy and Selective Internal Radiation Therapy with Yttrium-90 Microspheres: A Systematic Review Liver Resection for Colorectal Hepatic Metastases after Systemic Chemotherapy and Selective Internal Radiation Therapy with Yttrium-90 Microspheres: A Systematic Review Background: Selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) using yttrium-90 resin microspheres has been used together with systemic chemotherapy to treat patients with unresectable liver metastases. This study undertook the first systematic pooled assessment of the case profile, treatment and outcome in patients with initially inoperable colorectal hepatic metastases undergoing resection after systemic chemotherapy and SIRT. Methods: A systematic review of the literature was performed using Medline and Embase for publications between January 1998 and August 2017. Keywords and MESH headings “SIRT”, “Yttrium-99 radio embolization” and “liver metastases” were used. Reports on patients undergoing liver resection after SIRT for colorectal liver metastases were included. Case reports, reviews and papers without original data were excluded. The study protocol was registered with PROSPERO, (registration number: CRD42017072374). Results: The study population comprised of 120 patients undergoing liver resection after chemotherapy and SIRT. The conversion rate to hepatectomy in previously unresectable patients was 13.6% (109 of 802). All studies report a single application of SIRT. The interval from SIRT to surgery ranged from 39 days to 9 months. Overall, there were 4 (3.3%) deaths after hepatectomy in patients treated by chemotherapy and SIRT. Conclusions: This large pooled report of patients undergoing hepatectomy for colorectal liver metastases after chemotherapy and SIRT shows that 13.6% of patients with initially inoperable disease undergo resection with low procedure-related mortality.
review-article	EDV475728	The Changing Concept of Gut Endocrinology The Changing Concept of Gut Endocrinology Gastrointestinal hormones are released from enteroendocrine cells in the digestive tract. More than 30 hormone genes are expressed, which make the gut the largest endocrine organ in the body. At present, it is feasible to conceive the hormones under 5 headings: the structural homology groups most hormones into 9 families, each of which is assumed to originate from a single gene. Today's hormone gene often has multiple phenotypes due to alternative splicing, tandem organization or differentiated maturation of the prohormone. By these mechanisms, more than 100 different hormonal peptides are released from the gut. Gut hormones are also widely expressed in extraintestinal cells. These cells may release different fragments of the same prohormone due to cell-specific processing pathways. Moreover, endocrine cells, immune cells, neurons, myocytes, kidney cells, sperm cells and cancer cells secrete gut peptides in different ways, so the same peptide may act for instance as a hormone, a neurotransmitter, a cytokine, a growth factor or a fertility factor. The targets of gastrointestinal hormones are specific G-protein coupled receptors that are expressed in the cell membrane all over the body. Thus, each gut hormone constitutes a regulatory system operating in the whole organism.
research-article	ENE494991	"Physical Activity, Physical Function, and Quadriceps Muscle Thickness in Male Patients with Sub-Acute Stroke during Hospitalization: A Pilot Study Physical Activity, Physical Function, and Quadriceps Muscle Thickness in Male Patients with Sub-Acute Stroke during Hospitalization: A Pilot Study Increasing physical activity (PA) is an important rehabilitation target for patients with sub-acute stroke during hospitalization in order to recover physical function and prevent stroke recurrence. However, the characteristics of low PA in stroke patients during hospitalization who were targets for increased intervention have not been reported. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between the daily number of steps and physical function and quadriceps muscle thickness (QMT) in patients with sub-acute stroke during hospitalization for convalescence rehabilitation. Twenty-nine patients with ischemic or haemorrhagic stroke (mean age, 69 ± 11 years) hospitalized for inpatient convalescent rehabilitation were included. PA was measured using a three-dimensional accelerometer that calculates the daily number of steps taken. Physical function was measured by a short physical performance battery (SPPB; 0–12 points) and the leg motor selectivity score (6 motor stages defined by Brunnstrom), and the QMT of both legs was measured using ultrasonography. PA was significantly correlated with the SPPB score (r = 0.63, p = 0.0002), QMT on the paretic side (r = 0.41, p = 0.02), and QMT on non-paretic side (r = 0.56, p = 0.002). There were no significant effects of the leg motor selectivity score on daily PA (F = 1.37, p = 0.27). In the multiple regression analysis, only the SPPB score showed significant linear regression (β = 0.44, p = 0.02). PA in male patients with sub-acute stroke during hospitalization was related to physical function and QMT and not with the severity of paresis."
review-article	ESR479005	Defining Standards in Experimental Microsurgical Training: Recommendations of the European Society for Surgical Research (ESSR) and the International Society for Experimental Microsurgery (ISEM) Defining Standards in Experimental Microsurgical Training: Recommendations of the European Society for Surgical Research (ESSR) and the International Society for Experimental Microsurgery (ISEM) Background: Expectations towards surgeons in modern surgical practice are extremely high with minimal complication rates and maximal patient safety as paramount objectives. Both of these aims are highly dependent on individual technical skills that require sustained, focused, and efficient training outside the clinical environment. At the same time, there is an increasing moral and ethical pressure to reduce the use of animals in research and training, which has fundamentally changed the practice of microsurgical training and research. Various animal models were introduced and widely used during the mid-20th century, the pioneering era of experimental microsurgery. Since then, high numbers of ex vivo training concepts and quality control measures have been proposed, all aiming to reduce the number of animals without compromising quality and outcome of training. Summary: Numerous microsurgical training courses are available worldwide, but there is no general agreement concerning the standardization of microsurgical training. The major aim of this literature review and recommendation is to give an overview of various aspects of microsurgical training. We introduce here the findings of a previous survey-based analysis of microsurgical courses within our network. Basic principles behind microsurgical training (3Rs, good laboratory practice, 3Cs), considerations around various microsurgical training models, as well as several skill assessment tools are discussed. Recommendations are formulated following intense discussions within the European Society for Surgical Research (ESSR) and the International Society for Experimental Microsurgery (ISEM), based on scientific literature as well as on several decades of experience in the field of experimental (micro)surgery and preclinical research, represented by the contributing authors. Key Messages: Although ex vivo models are crucial for the replacement and reduction of live animal use, living animals are still indispensable at every level of training which aims at more than just a basic introduction to microsurgical techniques. Modern, competency-based microsurgical training is multi-level, implementing different objective assessment tools as outcome measures. A clear consensus on fundamental principles of microsurgical training and more active international collaboration for the sake of standardization are urgently needed.
case-report	ETJ485742	Severe Inflammatory Ophthalmopathy in a Euthyroid Patient during Nivolumab Treatment Severe Inflammatory Ophthalmopathy in a Euthyroid Patient during Nivolumab Treatment Introduction: Nivolumab is a promising treatment in patients with advanced malignancies. Among immune-related adverse events, autoimmune thyroid disorders are frequently reported. Patient: A 61-year-old male patient had no history of familial or personal thyroid disease. In 2012, this patient, a heavy smoker, presented with non-small-cell lung cancer that was treated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. In 2015, the cancer progressed with cervical compressive symptoms, and the patient was treated with nivolumab. Results: After 3 infusions, bilateral eyelid ptosis and bilateral conjunctival redness with chemosis were observed. Ophthalmologic examination revealed severe proptosis with complete ophthalmoplegia but with normal vision, color test, and optic disk. Thyroid function tests were normal (TSH = 0.65 mU/L, free T4 = 15.4 pmol/L) without anti-thyroperoxidase or anti-TSH receptor antibodies. CT scan of the orbits confirmed marked bilateral proptosis with expansion of the orbital adipose tissue without significant thickening of extraocular muscles. T2-weighted MRI showed inflammation of orbital adipose tissue. Nivolumab treatment was withdrawn, and the patient received weekly intravenous high-dose methylprednisolone (1 g for 2 weeks, 500 mg for 4 weeks, and 250 mg for 5 weeks). After the first 3 cycles, significant improvement of left chemosis was observed whereas bilateral ptosis and ophthalmoplegia were unchanged. The patient was euthyroid without thyroid autoimmunity 1 week prior to his death due to massive hemoptysis. Conclusion: We report severe inflammatory ophthalmopathy in a euthyroid patient with non-small-cell lung cancer during nivolumab therapy. The occurrence of such ophthalmic adverse events is likely to increase during nivolumab therapy in patients with advanced malignancies.
research-article	FDT375159	Ultrasound Assessment of Umbilical Cord Morphology in the First Trimester: A Feasibility Study Ultrasound Assessment of Umbilical Cord Morphology in the First Trimester: A Feasibility Study Objective: The aim of this study was to determine whether morphology and measurement of the umbilical cord could be accurately assessed at the time of the 11- to 13+6-week scan. Methods: We conducted a prospective study of 100 consecutive women with singleton pregnancies at 11-13+6 weeks' gestation who were seen for routine aneuploidy screening. Transabdominal ultrasound scans were performed, and the distance between two adjacent coils of the umbilical artery was measured in a free loop of umbilical cord. The antenatal umbilical coiling index (aUCI) was calculated as the inverse of this measurement (aUCI = 1/intercoil distance in cm). The maximum diameter of the umbilical vein was measured. Umbilical venous blood flow velocity was obtained using standard Doppler technique. Interobserver variability was assessed. A subjective assessment of the cord was performed using the Sepulveda system of classification to compare the reproducibility of the observations between two observers. Results: The intended measurements could be obtained in all cases. The aUCI was found to decrease with advancing gestation, while the umbilical venous diameter increased with gestation. The umbilical venous blood flow velocity also increased with gestation. Interobserver consistency in the objective measurement of the aUCI was poor (kappa 0.146). However, the Sepulveda classification system was found to be applicable and reproducible at this period of gestation (kappa 0.601). Conclusions: Umbilical cord morphology can be consistently studied in the first trimester. A subjective method of evaluation of the morphology may be a more reproducible technique until measurement strategies are refined and operator experience developed.
review-article	FHR452903	Inflammation and Thymus Ageing Inflammation and Thymus Ageing The thymus is primarily responsible for T cell production. However, it begins to recede in size and function, from early in life. This decreased generation of naive T cells during normal thymus ageing, or linked with pathology (i.e. chronic inflammation), leads to reduced T cell specificities, peripheral T cell imbalances, and higher susceptibilities to infections. Various clinical strategies for thymus and T cell recovery have been investigated, although no effective clinical treatments for the reconstitution of peripheral T cell diversity in severe immune deficiencies are available. The recent identification of thymic epithelial progenitor cells (TEPC) in the adult thymus will enable investigations into a new generation of therapies focused on regenerating the thymic microenvironment for diverse specificity T cell reconstitution in the elderly. The specific mechanisms underlying TEPC activation are still being investigated. Recent data point to an important role of the intrathymic transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) circuitry. Although dual actions of this cytokine have been reported in the immune system, TGF-β signaling is transiently activated in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells during hematopoietic regeneration. This review investigates the current strategies for thymus reactivation to replenish the peripheral T cell repertoire and potentially reverse the age-related inflammatory milieu.
review-article	FHR452904	Intrahypophyseal Immune-Endocrine Interactions: Endocrine Integration of the Inflammatory Inputs Intrahypophyseal Immune-Endocrine Interactions: Endocrine Integration of the Inflammatory Inputs Endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) of gram-negative bacteria has been recognized for more than 40 years as a modulator of anterior pituitary hormone production. The action of LPS was thought to be predominantly mediated through LPS-stimulated immune cell-derived cytokines, and is part of the concept of immune-endocrine crosstalk, which regulates bidirectional adaptive processes between the endocrine and immune systems during inflammatory or infectious processes. With the detection of innate immune system components in the normal and tumoral pituitary, including the Toll-like receptor 4, the target of LPS, it has become evident that LPS can directly modify the physiology and pathophysiology of the anterior pituitary. LPS-induced intrapituitary mechanisms involve the stimulation of intrapituitary cytokines, and also directly act on hormone synthesis, growth, and apoptosis of endocrine cells. This review focuses on the effects of LPS on pituitary physiology, its interaction with pro- and anti-inflammatory factors, and the molecular mechanisms involved in these processes.
review-article	FHR452911	Steroids and Autoimmunity Steroids and Autoimmunity From the middle of the 19th century, it is known that endocrine and immune systems interact bi-directionally in different processes that ensure organism homeostasis. Endocrine and nervous systems have a pivotal role in the balancing of pro- and anti-inflammatory functions of immune system, and constitute a complex circadian neuroendocrine network. Autoimmune diseases have in fact a complex pathogenic origin in which the importance of endocrine system was demonstrated. In this chapter, we will mention the structure and function of steroidal hormones involved in the neuroendocrine immune network and we will address the ways in which endocrine and immune systems influence each other, in a bi-directional fashion. Adrenal hormones, sex hormones, vitamin D, and melatonin and prolactin importantly all contribute to the homeostasis of the immune system. Indeed, some of the steroidal hormone activities determine inhibition or stimulation of immune system components, in both physiological (i.e. suppression of an unwanted response in pregnancy, or stimulation of a protective response in infections) and pathological conditions. We will finally mention the rationale for optimization of exogenous administration of glucocorticoids in chronic autoimmune diseases, and the latest developments concerning these drugs.
review-article	FHR452913	The Somatotrope Growth Hormone-Releasing Hormone/Growth Hormone/Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 Axis in Immunoregulation and Immunosenescence The Somatotrope Growth Hormone-Releasing Hormone/Growth Hormone/Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 Axis in Immunoregulation and Immunosenescence Most scientific reports debate the thymotropic and immuno-stimulating properties of the somatotrope growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)/growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 axis, but there is still some disagreement about the physiological role of this axis in basal conditions. Moreover, some authors have hypothesized that the physiological role of the somatotrope axis only appears in stressful conditions (such as sepsis or infective and inflammatory diseases). This chapter will provide an extended overview of the expression of the components (signals and receptors) of the somatotrope axis and their properties on cells of the innate and adaptive immune system. It will also summarize some clinical studies suggesting a benefit for a short-term GH treatment in acute immunodeficiencies, and the importance of GH supplementation in adult GH deficiency. A new transgenic mouse model, the hypothalamic GHRH-deficient (Ghrh-/-) mouse, which exhibits a severe deficiency of the somatotrope axis, will be presented since it will be of great help in further deciphering the regulation by the GHRH/GH/IGF-1 axis on both immune development and function. Finally, we will discuss the implication of aging-related somatopause in relation to the general context of Immunosenescence.
review-article	FHR452914	Endocrine Immunology of Chagas Disease Endocrine Immunology of Chagas Disease The concept of immunoendocrine interactions, existing in normal and pathological conditions, is relatively recent. Accordingly, cells from the immune system and from endocrine glands share common receptors for cytokines and hormones, allowing systemic and local regulatory mechanisms. In this context, lymphoid organs are under physiological hormonal control. Disturbances in these systems, as those caused by pathogens changes the physiological profile of these interactions, with the release of proinflammatory cytokines and hormones, and one example is the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Within endocrine tissues, inflammation occurs with local increase of cytokines, extracellular matrix proteins, and influx of inflammatory cells. One example of lymphoid organ that can be influenced by pathogens and hormonal response is the thymus, with changes in the normal T-cell differentiation process. Several viruses, bacteria, and protozoa induce severe thymic atrophy with massive death of developing thymocytes. In several conditions, this is at least partially due to the activation of the HPA axis and ultimate rise in systemic glucocorticoid release. In the case of Trypanosoma cruzi infection (a protozoan that is the causative agent of Chagas disease), another stress-related hormone, prolactin can partially revert this pathogen-induced thymic atrophy and the abnormal release of immature thymocytes from the organ. Overall, our data clearly reveal that pathogens and more particularly T. cruzi, can promote an immunoendocrine imbalance, with emphasis on stress-related hormones, which can influence lymphocyte dynamics, with consequences in the system and local immune response.
review-article	FNN478914	"REM Sleep Behavior Disorder REM Sleep Behavior Disorder Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a brain disorder, characterized by the dream enactment during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep due to a lack of physiologic muscle atonia and increased muscle twitching. Schenk was the first to describe this disorder in 1986; however, few authors reported in the 1970-1980s loss of physiological muscle atonia combined with dream enactment in the course of brainstem disorders and as a consequence of alcoholism and antidepressant treatment. RBD affects less than 1% of the adult population, but can be found in up to 25-50% of neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's disease, multisystem atrophy, and dementia with Lewy body. In the last decade, many studies provided evidence that RBD precedes parkinsonian motor signs by several years, suggesting that RBD should no longer be considered a complication but a part of the prodromal phase of these diseases. Etiologically, primary (idiopathic RBD) and several secondary forms in addition to neurodegeneration (related to focal brainstem damage, narcolepsy, autoimmune disorders, and drugs) are known. Pathophysiologically, brainstem and supratentorial mechanisms involving glutamatergic, glycinergic, and GABA-ergic neurotransmission have been implicated. Recently, an animal model of RBD has been described. Clinical features consist of characteristic nocturnal behaviors, but also daytime symptoms including excessive sleepiness and cognitive alterations. The diagnosis of RBD is made according to international diagnostic criteria, based on medical history, and video-polysomnographic features. Current treatment strategies include actions which ensure a safe sleep environment, the avoidance of triggering/exacerbating factors and if necessary pharmacological (mainly clonazepam and melatonin) and non-pharmacological (e.g., behavioral measures) interventions. Future research should clarify the exact sleep-wake characteristics of RBD (also beyond REM sleep) and their evolution over time, the contribution of brainstem but also supratentorial mechanisms to its pathophysiology, and the (early?) diagnostic and (causative?) treatment consequences of RBD in the context of neurodegeneration."
review-article	GAT431304	Metastatic Disease in the Stomach Metastatic Disease in the Stomach Background: Gastric metastases are rare and represent a late and progressed stage of malignant disease. This review highlights epidemiological, clinical and endoscopic findings as well as therapeutic strategies for metastatic disease of the stomach. Summary: The clinical presentation of gastric metastases is highly unspecific. The endoscopic appearance of gastric metastases is heterogeneous, but the most prevalent findings are solitary and submucosal lesions in the gastric wall. The most prevalent primary tumor spreading to the stomach is breast cancer, followed by renal cell cancer and many others. In general, gastric metastases occur in a late stage of malignant disease and frequently indicate short survival. Specific therapy for gastric metastases does not exist and is mainly performed with chemotherapy according to the primary tumor. Compared with other metastatic diseases, gastric metastases of renal cell cancer and breast cancer need distinct consideration. Gastric metastasis of these cancers presents with a better prognosis, as patients with these conditions can be offered effective chemotherapeutic treatment. Key Message: Gastric metastatic disease is a rare clinical presentation. The pathophysiology of gastric metastatic seeding is not well understood. Practical Implications: In the course of malignant disease the presence of gastric metastases should be taken into account if mucosal or submucosal gastric lesions are present. Therapy in general depends on the primary tumor.
review-article	GER381877	Stem Cells in Wound Healing: The Future of Regenerative Medicine? A Mini-Review Stem Cells in Wound Healing: The Future of Regenerative Medicine? A Mini-Review The increased risk of disease and decreased capacity to respond to tissue insult in the setting of aging results from complex changes in homeostatic mechanisms, including the regulation of oxidative stress and cellular heterogeneity. In aged skin, the healing capacity is markedly diminished resulting in a high risk for chronic wounds. Stem cell-based therapies have the potential to enhance cutaneous regeneration, largely through trophic and paracrine activity. Candidate cell populations for therapeutic application include adult mesenchymal stem cells, embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells. Autologous cell-based approaches are ideal to minimize immune rejection but may be limited by the declining cellular function associated with aging. One strategy to overcome age-related impairments in various stem cell populations is to identify and enrich with functionally superior stem cell subsets via single cell transcriptomics. Another approach is to optimize cell delivery to the harsh environment of aged wounds via scaffold-based cell applications to enhance engraftment and paracrine activity of therapeutic stem cells. In this review, we shed light on challenges and recent advances surrounding stem cell therapies for wound healing and discuss limitations for their clinical adoption.
research-article	GER443611	"Long-Term Effects of Individually Tailored Physical Training and Activity on Physical Function, Well-Being and Cognition in Scandinavian Nursing Home Residents: A Randomized Controlled Trial Long-Term Effects of Individually Tailored Physical Training and Activity on Physical Function, Well-Being and Cognition in Scandinavian Nursing Home Residents: A Randomized Controlled Trial Background: The preservation of physical functions such as muscle strength, balance and mobility is fundamental to maintaining independence in activities of daily living (ADL). The physical activity level of most nursing home residents is very low, which implies that they are often subject to a decline in health, mobility, autonomy and social contacts and are also at risk of suffering a decline in mental well-being. In a previous study, we demonstrated that transfers, balance and physical activity level improved after 3 months of individually tailored intervention in nursing home residents. Objective: To evaluate the long-term effects on ADL, balance function, physical activity level, physical performance, falls-related self-efficacy, well-being and cognitive function 3 months after the completion of our intervention in nursing home residents. Methods: The study was a multicenter randomized, controlled clinical trial with a parallel-group design. It was conducted in nursing homes in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, with an intervention period lasting 3 months and a follow-up at 6 months. Initially, 322 nursing home residents with a mean age of 85 years were included; 85 from Sweden, 171 from Norway and 66 from Denmark. Of these, 241 [129 intervention group (IG), 112 control group (CG)] were eligible for the 6-month follow-up tests. The level of dependence in ADL, physical activity level, several dimensions of physical function, well-being, falls-related self-efficacy and cognitive function were assessed with reliable and valid instruments at baseline, immediately after 3 months of intervention and 3 months later at the 6-month follow-up. Results: After 3 months of intervention and an additional period of 3 months without intervention, only the following 2 variables demonstrated significant group differences: social and cognitive function, measured by the Functional Independence Measure n-r, where the IG deteriorated while the CG was almost stable. However, regarding transfers, the IG deteriorated significantly less than the CG. Conclusion: Without supervised physical exercise that challenged the individuals' capability, gains in ADL function, balance and transfer ability deteriorated during the 3 months following the intervention period. Thus, continuous, individually adjusted and supported physical activity seems crucial for the maintenance of physical functions in these vulnerable elderly persons."
research-article	GER478263	"Effects of Standardized Home Training in Patients with Cognitive Impairment following Geriatric Rehabilitation: A Randomized Controlled Pilot Study Effects of Standardized Home Training in Patients with Cognitive Impairment following Geriatric Rehabilitation: A Randomized Controlled Pilot Study Background: Post-ward geriatric rehabilitation programs have hardly been developed and validated, which leaves a substantial gap in rehabilitative care in older adults and hinders full exploitation of maintained, but often unrecognized rehabilitation potentials. Geriatric rehabilitation patients with cognitive impairment represent a highly vulnerable population which is often affected by a lack of an ongoing support at the intersection between ward-based and post-ward rehabilitation. Objective: To determine the effect of a standardized home-based training program in geriatric patients with cognitive impairment following ward-based rehabilitation. Methods: A randomized controlled, single-blinded intervention trial (RCT) with wait list control design was used. Geriatric patients (n = 34; age: 81.9 ± 5.7 years) with cognitive impairment (MMSE: 18.8 ± 4.7), identified by predefined in- and exclusion criteria, were consecutively recruited from a geriatric rehab ward. Patients in the intervention group (IG, n = 17) performed a 6-week strength and functional home training. The control group (CG, n = 17) started an identical training 6 weeks later with an initial usual care period during the intervention for the IG. Functional performance (Short Physical Performance Battery; SPPB), clinically relevant functional deficits (Performance Oriented Assessment; POMA), and physical activity (Assessment of Physical Activity For Older Persons questionnaire; APAFOP) represented primary outcome measurements complemented by additional secondary outcome parameters. Results: The IG significantly increased functional performances in SPPB (total score: p = 0.012; chair rise: p = 0.007, balance: p = 0.066), reduced gait and balance deficits in POMA (total score: p = 0.006; balance: p = 0.034; gait: p = 0.019), and increased physical activity (APAFOP; p = 0.05) compared to the CG. Effect sizes showed medium to large effects for significant parameters (eta2 = 0.14-0.45). Training benefits and adherence were more pronounced following the immediate onset of post-ward training compared to a delayed start (eta2 = 0.06-0.23). Conclusion: Results of this pilot study show that a feasible and easy to handle, home-based rehabilitation program increased functional performance and physical activity in a vulnerable, multimorbid patient group with cognitive impairment, in particular when the post-ward training onset was not postponed."
review-article	GER488759	Cytoplasmic RNA Granules in Somatic Maintenance Cytoplasmic RNA Granules in Somatic Maintenance Cytoplasmic RNA granules represent subcellular compartments that are enriched in protein-bound RNA species. RNA granules are produced by evolutionary divergent eukaryotes, including yeast, mammals, and plants. The functions of cytoplasmic RNA granules differ widely. They are dictated by the cell type and physiological state, which in turn is determined by intrinsic cell properties and environmental factors. RNA granules provide diverse cellular functions. However, all of the granules contribute to aspects of RNA metabolism. This is exemplified by transcription, RNA storage, silencing, and degradation, as well as mRNP remodeling and regulated translation. Several forms of cytoplasmic mRNA granules are linked to normal physiological processes. For instance, they may coordinate protein synthesis and thereby serve as posttranscriptional “operons”. RNA granules also participate in cytoplasmic mRNA trafficking, a process particularly well understood for neurons. Many forms of RNA granules support the preservation of somatic cell performance under normal and stress conditions. On the other hand, severe insults or disease can cause the formation and persistence of RNA granules that contribute to cellular dysfunction, especially in the nervous system. Neurodegeneration and many other diseases linked to RNA granules are associated with aging. Nevertheless, information related to the impact of aging on the various types of RNA granules is presently very limited. This review concentrates on cytoplasmic RNA granules and their role in somatic cell maintenance. We summarize the current knowledge on different types of RNA granules in the cytoplasm, their assembly and function under normal, stress, or disease conditions. Specifically, we discuss processing bodies, neuronal granules, stress granules, and other less characterized cytoplasmic RNA granules. Our focus is primarily on mammalian and yeast models, because they have been critical to unravel the physiological role of various RNA granules. RNA granules in plants and pathogens are briefly described. We conclude our viewpoint by summarizing the emerging concepts for RNA granule biology and the open questions that need to be addressed in future studies.
research-article	GOI452660	"Prevalence and Symptomatic Burden of Diagnosed Endometriosis in the United States: National Estimates from a Cross-Sectional Survey of 59,411 Women Prevalence and Symptomatic Burden of Diagnosed Endometriosis in the United States: National Estimates from a Cross-Sectional Survey of 59,411 Women Background/Aims: To estimate the prevalence of diagnosed endometriosis (DE) in women in the United States and assess the associated symptomatic burden. Methods: An online, cross-sectional survey of women aged 18-49 years was conducted from August 6, 2012, through November 14, 2012. Survey data (weighted by age, race, education, income, geographical distribution, and propensity score) were used to estimate the prevalence and symptomatic burden of DE in women in the United States. Weighted logistic regressions were used to assess differences in symptom burden between women with and without endometriosis. Results: The prevalence of DE was estimated at 6.1% (2,922 of 48,020 women surveyed); 52.7% of women were 18-29 years of age when they were diagnosed with endometriosis. Most (86.2%) women experienced symptoms before diagnosis. More women with (vs. without) DE had menstrual pelvic pain/cramping (52.7 vs. 45.2%), non-menstrual pelvic pain/cramping (36.7 vs. 14.3%), infertility (11.6 vs. 3.4%), and dyspareunia (29.5 vs. 13.4%). Women with endometriosis were also more likely to report severe symptoms (OR (95% CI) 2.7 (2.3-3.1) for menstrual pelvic pain/cramping, 2.2 (1.7-2.9) for non-menstrual pelvic pain/cramping, and 2.4 (1.8-3.2) for dyspareunia). Conclusion: The prevalence of DE among US women is notable, and affected women experience a substantial symptom burden."
case-report	GOI480400	Case Report: Pulmonary Tumor Thrombotic Microangiopathy in a Cervical Cancer Patient Case Report: Pulmonary Tumor Thrombotic Microangiopathy in a Cervical Cancer Patient Pulmonary tumor thrombotic microangiopathy (PTTM) is a rapidly progressive and often fatal pulmonary disease induced by tumor emboli within the small pulmonary arteries. PTTM presents clinically as progressive hypoxia and pulmonary hypertension. Most cases of PTTM are caused by an adenocarcinoma of the stomach. We present the first case report of PTTM caused by cervical squamous cell carcinoma. An 82-year-old woman presented with vaginal bleeding and exertional dyspnea. A cervical mass biopsy showed squamous cell carcinoma. Computed tomography revealed ground glass opacity of the bilateral peripheral lung fields. Hypoxia and pulmonary hypertension gradually worsened after admission. Treatment for acute heart failure was started, but was ineffective. She died of respiratory failure 31 days after admission. She was diagnosed at autopsy as having PTTM induced by cervical squamous cell carcinoma. PTTM needs to be considered in any patient with advanced cancer and lung-related issues to rule out metastatic disease, even in the absence of imaging findings.
meta-analysis	GOI484243	Survival Rates in Closed and Open Vitrification for Human Mature Oocyte Cryopreservation: A Meta-Analysis Survival Rates in Closed and Open Vitrification for Human Mature Oocyte Cryopreservation: A Meta-Analysis Background/Aims: Survival of warmed oocytes is the first part and is one of the most important aspects of in vitro fertilization following oocyte cryopreservation. There is no definite conclusion about the difference in survival rates between closed and open vitrification for oocyte cryopreservation. This study aimed to investigate whether there is a difference in survival rates between closed and open vitrification for cryopreservation of human mature oocytes. Methods: A literature search was performed using the MEDLINE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Embase databases. A total of 4 studies were included in the meta-analysis. Results: In the frequentist meta-analysis, the random effects model showed no statistically significant difference in survival rates between closed and open vitrification (risk ratio [RR] 0.8873, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.7658–1.0280). However, an effect size deviation of the RR from 1.0 and a borderline trend of the 95% CI were noted. In the Bayesian meta-analysis, the posterior probability that closed vitrification would decrease the survival rate when compared to that with open vitrification was 83.04% for the random effects model. Conclusion: It is not yet possible to conclude that closed vitrification is an aseptic alternative to open vitrification in human mature oocyte cryopreservation.
review-article	HRP476065	"Hormones and Human and Nonhuman Primate Growth Hormones and Human and Nonhuman Primate Growth The aim of this paper was to review information pertaining to the hormonal regulation of nonhuman primate growth, with specific focus on the growth hormone (GH)-insulin-like growth factor (IGF) axis and adrenal androgens. Hormones of the GH-IGF axis are consistently associated with measures of growth – linear, weight, or both – during the growth period; in adulthood, concentrations of IGF-I, IGF-binding protein-3, and GH-binding protein are not associated with any measures of size. Comparing patterns of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEA sulfate (DHEAS) may be especially relevant for understanding whether the childhood stage of growth and development is unique to humans and perhaps other apes. Genetic, hormonal, and morphological data on adrenarche in other nonhuman primate species suggest that this endocrine transition is delayed in humans, chimpanzees, and possibly gorillas, while present very early in postnatal life in macaques. This suggests that although perhaps permitted by an extension of the pre-adolescent growth period, childhood builds upon existing developmental substrates rather than having been inserted de novo into an ancestral growth trajectory. Hormones can provide insight regarding the evolution of the human growth trajectory."
case-report	HRP490425	Gastrointestinal Vascular Malformations in Patients with Turner’s Syndrome: A Systematic Review of Case Reports Gastrointestinal Vascular Malformations in Patients with Turner’s Syndrome: A Systematic Review of Case Reports Background/Aim: There is a paucity of data on gastrointestinal (GI) vascular abnormalities in patients with Turner’s syndrome (TS). Therefore, this literature review aimed to characterize the nature of GI vascular malformations in patients with TS, their localization in the GI tract, and their clinical and laboratory manifestations. Methods: A systematic search for articles was conducted using Medline and Embase (until August 2017). A manual search of the references of the included papers was performed to identify any potential additional references. We also conducted a retrospective chart review of all patients with TS and GI bleeding who were hospitalized at our institution. Results: A total of 29 articles published between 1947 and 2015 that described 39 cases were reviewed. Additionally, we included 2 patients who were hospitalized at our institution. The median age of patients with TS was 15 years (range: 0.1–57 years). Iron deficiency anaemia (35/40), haematochezia (15/37), and melaena (14/36) were the most common symptoms. Abnormal GI vessels occurred throughout the entire bowel, with a predilection for the small intestine (72%, 29/40). The most common abnormal vessels (65%, 24/37) were telangiectasias and dilated veins. Conclusion: Telangiectasias and dilated veins of the small intestine were the most commonly seen abnormal GI vessels in patients with TS.
review-article	HRP493211	"Identifying Potentially Modifiable Factors Associated with Treatment Non-Adherence in Paediatric Growth Hormone Deficiency: A Systematic Review Identifying Potentially Modifiable Factors Associated with Treatment Non-Adherence in Paediatric Growth Hormone Deficiency: A Systematic Review Background: Despite the developments of recombinant growth hormone (rhGH) treatment and the benefits in long-term clinical health outcomes, evidence has shown that many children with growth hormone deficiency (GHD) still fail to achieve their target adult height. Suboptimal outcomes have been largely attributed to treatment non-adherence. Methods: A search of 11 electronic databases was undertaken to identify relevant articles, published in English, between 1985 and 2018. Additional search strategies included hand-searching topic review articles to identify eligible studies. Articles were screened against the inclusion eligibility criteria and data on sample characteristics, study design, outcomes, and key findings was extracted. The results were narratively synthesised and categorised using the COM-B theoretical framework. Results: Twenty-one full-text articles were assessed for eligibility, of which 6 articles met the inclusion criteria. The prevalence of non-adherence in the included studies varied from 7 to 71%. Potentially modifiable factors associated with rhGH non-adherence were categorised within the COM-B framework; key factors included: a lack of knowledge and understanding of the condition and treatment, discomfort and pain associated with injections, and the quality of the healthcare professional-patient relationship. Conclusion: This review highlights the scope of the adherence problem evident amongst the paediatric GHD population and in addition presents the wide range of potentially modifiable factors that explain this health-related behaviour."
research-article	IAA477726	The Trend of Change of Allergic Diseases over the Years: Three Repeated Surveys from 1994 to 2014 The Trend of Change of Allergic Diseases over the Years: Three Repeated Surveys from 1994 to 2014 Background: Although it is known that there has been an increase in asthma and allergic diseases among school-aged children, results vary between countries. The aim of this study was to examine trends in the prevalence of these diseases in the city of Adana (south Turkey) over the last 20 years based on the results of 3 cross-sectional studies. Methods: Three cross-sectional surveys were performed 10 years apart in south Turkey. Here, we compare the surveys conducted among children between the ages of 6 and 14 years from 1994, 2004, and 2014. The participants were randomly chosen among children attending participating primary schools in Adana. The questionnaire in the first survey contained almost the same questions as the ISAAC. In the 2 latter surveys, we used the ISAAC questionnaire to investigate the prevalence of asthma and other allergic diseases. Results: A total of 2,334 children in 1994, 3,728 children in 2004, and 3,209 children in 2014 were included in the final analysis. The results showed a statistically significant increase in the prevalence of physician-diagnosed allergic diseases across the years, respectively: asthma (5, 4.6, and 8.9%), allergic rhinitis (8.8, 11.4, and 15.6%), and atopic dermatitis (5, 9.9, and 7%). In contrast, the prevalence of parent-reported current wheeze (16.2, 13.2%) decreased in the last 10 years. Conclusions: Our findings were consistent with the increased prevalence of childhood asthma and other allergic diseases. However, this pattern did not occur in respiratory symptoms.
review-article	IGG448542	Cellular Senescence, Immunosenescence and HIV Cellular Senescence, Immunosenescence and HIV Aging is a complex biological process that leads to several physiological changes. Among these changes, the most striking are those involving the innate and adaptive parts of the immune system. Furthermore, these changes are associated with a low-grade inflammation called inflamm-aging, which is the result of several lifelong antigenic stimulations, including chronic viral infections such as cytomegalovirus. Immunosenescence, concomitantly with inflamm-aging, is considered as the leading cause of age-related diseases including cardiovascular, neurodegenerative and metabolic diseases, and cancer. HIV infection, once considered a unique deadly infectious disease, has now become a chronic disease with efficacious highly active antiretroviral therapy. This signifies that the treatment transforms HIV infection from a chronic infection to a chronic inflammatory disease. Most people with HIV infection become aged, and older adults have been contracting HIV infection. Thus, there is a great interest to study HIV infection in relation to immunosenescence and inflamm-aging to determine whether immunosenescence contributes to HIV infection, or if HIV is causing immunosenescence and, as such, represents a premature immunosenescence and accelerated aging. Although there are many similarities in the immune and inflammatory changes and the occurrence of age-related chronic diseases between normal aging and HIV infection, the interaction between these processes is not well understood, and consequently the concept that HIV infection is an accelerated aging model is questioned. Future studies are needed to effectively answer this question for the better care of HIV-infected elderly patients.
research-article	INT477811	HIV-1 Subtype Diversity and Prevalence of Primary Drug Resistance in a Single-Center Pediatric Cohort in Germany HIV-1 Subtype Diversity and Prevalence of Primary Drug Resistance in a Single-Center Pediatric Cohort in Germany Objectives: Data on drug-resistant mutations (DRMs) in HIV-1-infected therapy-naïve children are scarce. The aim of this study was to determine the HIV-1 subtype distribution and the prevalence of DRMs in therapy-naïve HIV-1-infected children who received routine care at the University Hospital Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. Methods: Records of all HIV-1-infected children who received routine care between January 2005 and December 2015 were analyzed retrospectively. The collected data included demographics, clinical characteristics, CD4 cell count, viral load, HIV-1 subtype, and resistance genotype at baseline. Results: 83 HIV-1-infected children received routine care during the observation period. HIV-1 subtypes were available in 61/83 patients (73.5%) and baseline HIV-1 resistance in 24 (29%). The prevalence of major DRMs was 29% (21% nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors [NRTIs], 12.5% non-NRTIs, and 4% protease inhibitors). Minor mutations in the protease gene were common (58%). Non-B subtypes were predominant (77%). Conclusions: We report a predominance of non-subtype-B infections and a higher prevalence of DRMs compared to other pediatric cohorts from resource-rich settings. The difference in HIV-1 subtype distribution is due to the fact that a relevant proportion of pediatric patients in Germany are immigrants from high-prevalence settings in sub-Saharan Africa where non-B subtypes predominate.
review-article	JIN441299	Mitochondrial Regulation of Inflammasome Activation in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Mitochondrial Regulation of Inflammasome Activation in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by enhanced chronic airway and lung inflammatory responses to noxious particles or gases. It is a major unmet medical need worldwide, and in Western society is strongly associated with exposure to cigarette smoke (CS). CS-induced inflammation is believed to be a key immune driver in the pathogenesis of COPD. Since the concept of inflammasomes was first introduced nearly a decade ago, these have been increasingly recognized as a central player in innate immune and inflammatory responses. In addition, studies have emerged demonstrating that mitochondrial innate immune signaling plays an important role in CS-induced inflammasome activation, pulmonary inflammation and tissue remodeling responses. Here, recent discoveries about inflammasome activation and mitochondrial biology and their role in COPD pathogenesis are reviewed. In addition, the current limitations of our understanding of this theme and future research directions are discussed.
research-article	JVR479870	Regulation of Coronary Arterial Large Conductance Ca2+-Activated K+ Channel Protein Expression and Function by n-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids in Diabetic Rats Regulation of Coronary Arterial Large Conductance Ca2+-Activated K+ Channel Protein Expression and Function by n-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids in Diabetic Rats Aim: The objective of this study was to examine the effects of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs) on coronary arterial large conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (BK) channel function in coronary smooth muscle cells (SMCs) of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Methods: The effects of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) on coronary BK channel open probabilities were determined using the patch clamp technique. The mRNA and protein expressions of BK channel subunits were measured using qRT-PCR and Western blots. The coronary artery tension and coronary SMC Ca2+ concentrations were measured using a myograph system and fluorescence Ca2+ indicator. Results: Compared to nondiabetic control rats, the BK channel function was impaired with a reduced response to EPA and DHA in freshly isolated SMCs of diabetic rats. Oral administration of n-3 PUFAs had no effects on protein expressions of BK channel subunits in nondiabetic rats, but significantly enhanced those of BK-β1 in diabetic rats without altering BK-α protein levels. Moreover, coronary ring tension induced by iberiotoxin (a specific BK channel blocker) was increased and cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations in coronary SMCs were decreased in diabetic rats, but no changes were found in nondiabetic rats. Conclusions: n-3 PUFAs protect the coronary BK channel function and coronary vasoreactivity in diabetic rats as a result of not only increasing BK-β1 protein expressions, but also decreasing coronary artery tension and coronary smooth muscle cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations.
meta-analysis	KBR477572	Plasma ET-1 Concentrations are Elevated in Patients with Hypertension – Meta-Analysis of Clinical Studies Plasma ET-1 Concentrations are Elevated in Patients with Hypertension – Meta-Analysis of Clinical Studies Background/Aims: A recent study revealed that global overexpression of ET-1 causes a slight reduction in systemic blood pressure. Moreover, heterozygous ET-1 knockout mice are hypertensive. The role of ET-1 in human hypertension was so far not addressed by a strict meta-analysis of published human clinical studies. Methods: We included studies published between January 1, 1990 and February 28, 2017. We included case control studies analyzing untreated essential hypertension or hypertensive patients where antihypertensive medication was discontinued for at least two weeks. Based on the principle of Cochrane systematic reviews, case control studies (CCSs) in PubMed (Medline) and Google Scholar designed to identify the role of endothelin-1 (ET-1) in the pathophysiological of hypertension were screened. Review Manager Version 5.0 (Rev-Man 5.0) was applied for statistical analysis. Mean difference and 95% confidence interval (CI) were shown in inverse variance (IV) fixed-effects model or IV random-effects models. Results: Eleven studies fulfilling our in- and exclusion criteria were eligible for this meta-analysis. These studies included 450 hypertensive patients and 328 controls. Our meta-analysis revealed that ET-1 plasma concentrations were higher in hypertensive patients as compared to the control patients [mean difference between groups 1.57 pg/mL, 95%CI [0.47∼2.68, P = 0.005]. These finding were driven by patients having systolic blood pressure higher than 160 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure higher than 100 mmHg. Conclusions: This meta-analysis showed that hypertensive patients do have elevated plasma ET-1 concentrations. This finding is driven by those patients with high systolic/diastolic blood pressure. Given that the ET-1 gene did not appear in any of the whole genome association studies searching for hypertension associated gene loci, it is very likely that the elevated plasma ET-1 concentrations in hypertensive patients are secondary to hypertension and may reflect endothelial cell damage.
review-article	KDD444841	Autophagy in Chronic Kidney Diseases Autophagy in Chronic Kidney Diseases Background: Autophagy is the degrading process of protein and organelles mediated by lysosomes. This process is involved in purging senescent organelles and subversive proteins while maintaining the stability of the intracellular environment. This phenomenon is highly conservative, existing in nearly every species, and is involved in cell growth, proliferation and tumorigenesis. Summary: In recent decades, with the discovery of autophagy-related genes and proteins in conjunction with the improvement in detection methods, the study of autophagy is constantly achieving new breakthroughs. It has been discovered that multiple regulatory mechanisms, including Atg protein and its conjugation system, mammalian target of rapamycin upstream and downstream pathways, complex of B-cell lymphoma-2 and Beclin-1c, cellular stress and dual regulation of p53 protein, jointly mediate the process of autophagy. Aberrant autophagy can cause impairment of resident kidney cells and development of various renal diseases. Key Message: In this paper, we summarize recent discoveries regarding the development and regulatory mechanisms of autophagy. We also highlight the role of autophagy in the pathogenesis of some kidney diseases, such as diabetic nephropathy, obstructive nephropathy, IgA nephropathy, nephropathic cystinosis, aristolochic acid nephropathy, autoimmune kidney diseases and chronic cyclosporin A-induced nephrotoxicity. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of renal diseases and are useful for designing novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of chronic kidney disease.
review-article	KDD477493	"Integration of Proteomics and Metabolomics in Exploring Genetic and Rare Metabolic Diseases Integration of Proteomics and Metabolomics in Exploring Genetic and Rare Metabolic Diseases Background: Inherited metabolic disorders or inborn errors of metabolism are caused by deficiency of enzymatic activities in the catabolism of amino acids, carbohydrates, or lipids. These disorders include aminoacidopathies, urea cycle defects, organic acidemias, defects of oxidation of fatty acids, and lysosomal storage diseases. Inborn errors of metabolism constitute a significant proportion of genetic diseases, particularly in children; however, they are individually rare. Clinical phenotypes are very variable, some of them remain asymptomatic, others manifest metabolic decompensation in neonatal age, and others encompass mental retardation at later age. The clinical manifestation of these disorders can involve different organs and/or systems. Some disorders are easily managed if promptly diagnosed and treated, whereas in other cases neither diet, vitamin therapy, nor transplantation appears to prevent multi-organ impairment. Summary: Here, we discuss the principal challenges of metabolomics and proteomics in inherited metabolic disorders. We review the recent developments in mass spectrometry-based proteomic and metabolomic strategies. Mass spectrometry has become the most widely used platform in proteomics and metabolomics because of its ability to analyze a wide range of molecules, its optimal dynamic range, and great sensitivity. The fast measurement of a broad spectrum of metabolites in various body fluids, also collected in small samples like dried blood spots, have been facilitated by the use of mass spectrometry-based techniques. These approaches have enabled the timely diagnosis of inherited metabolic disorders, thereby facilitating early therapeutic intervention. Due to its analytical features, proteomics is suited for the basic investigation of inborn errors of metabolism. Modern approaches enable detailed functional characterization of the pathogenic biochemical processes, as achieved by quantification of proteins and identification of their regulatory chemical modifications. Key Message: Mass spectrometry-based “omics” approaches most frequently used to study the molecular mechanisms underlying inherited metabolic disorders pathophysiology are described."
research-article	LIC367752	"Outcomes of Hepatic Resection in Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Patients with Diabetes, Hypertension, and Dyslipidemia: Significance of Routine Follow-Up Outcomes of Hepatic Resection in Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Patients with Diabetes, Hypertension, and Dyslipidemia: Significance of Routine Follow-Up Background: The outcomes of hepatic resection in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension (HT), and dyslipidemia (DL) (metabolic components) remain unclear. Methods: The outcomes of 43 ICC patients without known risk factors for ICC who underwent hepatic resection were retrospectively reviewed. These patients were divided into three groups: those followed-up for metabolic components at least every 6 months (follow-up group, n=16), those not followed-up for metabolic components (no follow-up group, n=14), and those without metabolic components (control group, n=13). Results: In the follow-up group, 13 (81%) patients were further examined for ICC during follow-up because of abnormal screening results, such as elevated serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) concentrations or detection of hepatic tumor on ultrasonography and/or computed tomography, whereas most patients in the other two groups exhibited ICC-related symptoms. No patient in the follow-up group exhibited lymph node metastasis, whereas 43% of those in the no follow-up group and 46% in the control group had lymph node metastasis (p=0.005 and 0.004 vs. the follow-up group, respectively). All 16 patients in the follow-up group were diagnosed as International Union Against Cancer pathologic stage I or II (early stage). There were no significant differences in the incidence of postoperative recurrence between the three groups; however, the incidence of extrahepatic recurrence was lower in the follow-up group than in the no follow-up group and the control group (13% vs. 78% vs. 63%, p=0.0232). The 1-, 3-, and 5-year overall survivalrates in the follow-up group were better than those in the no follow-up and control groups (93/93/66% vs. 77/34/34% and 85/24/0%, p=0.034 and 0.001, respectively). Conclusions: Routine measurement of serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and/or CA19-9 levels and imaging examinations every 12 months (or 6 months, if possible) are recommended during follow-up for DM, HT, and DL to detect ICC at an early stage."
case-report	MPP437386	Central-Variant Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy due to Sulfasalazine: A Case Report Central-Variant Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy due to Sulfasalazine: A Case Report Objective: To report a rare case with central-variant posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome due to sulfasalazine. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 55-year-old female patient presented with seizure and acute-onset hemiparesia. Thirty days earlier, treatment with sulfasalazine was commenced in response to a diagnosis of psoriatic arthritis. Laboratory examinations were normal. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed symmetric edema within basal ganglia and thalami with sparing of the cerebral cortices. After stopping the treatment of sulfasalazine, clinical and radiological findings regressed dramatically. Conclusion: This was a case of central-variant posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome due to sulfasalazine, and atypical imaging findings should be kept in mind for early diagnosis.
case-report	MPP439350	Severe Methanol Poisoning with Supralethal Serum Formate Concentration: A Case Report Severe Methanol Poisoning with Supralethal Serum Formate Concentration: A Case Report Objective: To present a case of survival without visual and central nervous system sequelae at a formate concentration of twice the reported lethal level. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: This was a case of a 33-year-old man who ingested 1 liter of a toxic mixture of methanol and ethanol. Upon admission, he presented with anxiety, tachycardia and hypertension and had a serum formate level of 1,400 mg/l (normal range 0.9-2.1 mg/l), a methanol level of 806 mg/l (normal range 2-30 mg/l), an undetectable ethanol concentration and a normal lactate level. A 10% solution of ethanol and folinic acid was administered intravenously and two 8-hour sessions of intermittent hemodialysis were performed. The patient was discharged on the fifth day without sequelae of poisoning. The follow-up examinations 3 months and 2 years later revealed no damage to the basal ganglia. The patient had normal visual-evoked potential and findings on optical coherence tomography. The genetic analysis revealed a rare minor allele for the gene coding CYP2E1 enzyme of the microsomal ethanol oxidizing system. Conclusion: The patient survived acute methanol poisoning without long-term sequelae despite a high serum level of formic acid upon admission.
case-report	MPP442525	Cardiac Involvement in Von Hippel-Lindau Disease Cardiac Involvement in Von Hippel-Lindau Disease Objective: The aim of this case report was to highlight the importance of ruling out pheochromocytoma in a patient with Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) and cardiovascular manifestations. Clinical Presentation and Intervention: A 22-year-old woman with type IIb VHL presented with signs and symptoms of acute decompensated heart failure. Transthoracic echocardiography showed a dilated left ventricle with severely depressed ejection fraction, confirmed by MRI. Urinary catecholamine and metanephrine tests had elevated levels and an abdominal MRI showed the presence of two cystic masses at the left hypochondrium. Surgical resection of both masses was performed, confirming the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma and clear cell renal carcinoma on histology. Six-month echocardiography showed a left ventricle with normal diameters and preserved ejection fraction. Genetic analysis revealed a germline mutation (exon 3 deletion of VHL). As there was no family history of VHL, it was determined to be a de novo mutation. Conclusion: This case report showed an atypical manifestation in a patient with VHL and underlines the importance of screening for pheochromocytoma in such patients.
research-article	MPP468937	"Green Tea Induced Cellular Proliferation and the Expression of Transforming Growth Factor-β1 in the Jejunal Mucosa of Fasting Rats Green Tea Induced Cellular Proliferation and the Expression of Transforming Growth Factor-β1 in the Jejunal Mucosa of Fasting Rats Objective: The aim of this study was to understand whether or not the protective effect of green tea after fasting-induced damage in the jejunal mucosa of rat is dependent on cell proliferation and the stimulation of specific growth factors. Materials and Methods: Sixty adult male Wistar rats were used in this study. The animals were divided randomly into 5 groups, with 12 in each group (G1-5). The animals in G1 (control group) were fed a rat chow diet and water ad libitum. The animals in G2 (fasting group) were fasted for 3 days. The animals in the G3, G4, and G5 groups were fasted for 3 days as G2, but were given water (G3), green tea (G4), or a vitamin E (G5) solution, respectively, for another 7 days. The animals were euthanized, and the jejunum was removed and processed for histological and immunohistochemical analysis. Results: Compared to the G3 group, the jejunal mucosa of G4 rats showed a 70.6% higher level (p &lt; 0.001) of expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and 98% higher level (p = 0.0001) of the expression of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), whereas the level of fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF-1) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) expression was 22 and 11% lower, respectively, in G4 animals as compared to G3 rats. These differences in the expression of FGF-1 and IGF-1 in G4 animals were not statistically significant. Conclusion: In this study, green tea repaired the fasting-induced damage in the jejunal mucosa of rats, mainly by inducing a significant expression of TGF-β1 in the jejunal mucosa."
research-article	MPP481402	"Effects of Mucuna pruriens on Free Fatty Acid Levels and Histopathological Changes in the Brains of Rats Fed a High Fructose Diet Effects of Mucuna pruriens on Free Fatty Acid Levels and Histopathological Changes in the Brains of Rats Fed a High Fructose Diet Objective: To investigate free fatty acid levels and histopathological changes in the brain of rats fed a high fructose diet (HFrD) and to evaluate the effects of Mucuna pruriens, known to have antidiabetic activity, on these changes. Materials and Methods: The study comprised 28 mature female Wistar rats. The rats were divided into 4 groups, each included 7 rats. Group 1: control; group 2: fed an HFrD; group 3: fed normal rat chow and M. pruriens; group 4: fed an HFrD and M. pruriens for 6 weeks. At the end of 6 weeks, the rats were decapitated, blood and brain tissues were obtained. Serum glucose and triglyceride levels were measured. Free fatty acid levels were measured in 1 cerebral hemisphere of each rat and histopathological changes in the other. The Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare quantitative continuous data between 2 independent groups, and the Kruskal-Wallis test was used to compare quantitative continuous data between more than 2 independent groups. Results: Arachidonic acid and docosahexaenoic acid levels were significantly higher in group 2 than in group 1 (p &lt; 0.05). Free arachidonic acid and docosahexaenoic acid levels in group 4 were significantly less than in group 2 (p &lt; 0.05). Histopathological examination of group 2 revealed extensive gliosis, neuronal hydropic degeneration, and edema. In group 4, gliosis was much lighter than in group 2, and edema was not observed. Neuronal structures in group 4 were similar to those in group 1. Conclusions: The HFrD increased the levels of free arachidonic acid and docosahexaenoic acid probably due to membrane degradation resulting from possible oxidative stress and inflammation in the brain. The HFrD also caused extensive gliosis, neuronal hydropic degeneration, and edema. Hence, M. pruriens could have therapeutic effects on free fatty acid metabolism and local inflammatory responses in the brains of rats fed an HFrD."
research-article	MPP492922	"Effect of Celecoxib on Surgical Site Inflammation after Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Randomized Controlled Study Effect of Celecoxib on Surgical Site Inflammation after Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Randomized Controlled Study Objective: To evaluate the anti-inflammatory effectiveness of celecoxib and its effect on the rehabilitation of joint function after total knee arthroplasty. Methods: 72 patients presented between 2016 and 2017 and were divided into two groups. The experimental group was given 200 mg celecoxib twice daily with tramadol hydrochloride 50 mg twice daily (as required); the control group was given tramadol hydrochloride 50 mg twice daily for 6 weeks from the first day after total knee arthroplasty. Skin temperature around the knee was measured 1 day before surgery, on postoperative days 1 and 3, and at weeks 1, 2, and 6. Inflammatory markers (white blood cell count, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and interleukin-6) were measured preoperatively, on postoperative day 3, and at weeks 1 and 6. Knee Society Score was recorded preoperatively and at postoperative weeks 1, 2, and 6. Results: Except for preoperative skin temperature, the recorded skin temperatures of the experimental group were significantly different compared to those of the control group (p = 0.001, 0.024, 0.030, 0.041, 0.047, respectively). Levels of C-reactive protein were significantly different at the 1st and the 6th week after surgery, differing by 19.3 ± 4.64 mg/L (p &"
review-article	NDD369933	Role of Immunity and Inflammation in the Pathophysiology of Neurodegenerative Diseases Role of Immunity and Inflammation in the Pathophysiology of Neurodegenerative Diseases Neurodegenerative diseases are the result of progressive loss of neurons and axons in the central nervous system (CNS), which can lead to cognition and motor dysfunction. It is well known that CNS inflammation and immune activation play a major role in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases. Although the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is able to protect the CNS from immune activation, it becomes more permeable during inflammation, which renders the brain vulnerable to infections. A better understanding of the interaction between inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines, and the activated immune response, including astrocytes and microglia, is critical for the development of new therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases. This review first describes the role of innate immune activation in neurodegenerative diseases and illustrates the factors that contribute to the communication between the CNS and the immune system. A closer look is given at the role of the BBB in inflammation and immunity, as well as at the animal models used to study inflammation in neurodegenerative diseases. Finally, this review outlines the key pathways and biological mechanisms involved in CNS diseases, with a particular focus on multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
research-article	NED441087	"Stroke Prevalence, Mortality and Disability-Adjusted Life Years in Children and Youth Aged 0-19 Years: Data from the Global and Regional Burden of Stroke 2013 Stroke Prevalence, Mortality and Disability-Adjusted Life Years in Children and Youth Aged 0-19 Years: Data from the Global and Regional Burden of Stroke 2013 Background: There is increasing recognition of stroke as an important contributor to childhood morbidity and mortality. Current estimates of global childhood stroke burden and its temporal trends are sparse. Accurate and up-to-date estimates of childhood stroke burden are important for planning research and the resulting evidence-based strategies for stroke prevention and management. Objectives: To estimate the prevalence, mortality and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) for ischemic stroke (IS), hemorrhagic stroke (HS) and all stroke types combined globally from 1990 to 2013. Methodology: Stroke prevalence, mortality and DALYs were estimated using the Global Burden of Disease 2013 methods. All available data on stroke-related incidence, prevalence, excess mortality and deaths were collected. Statistical models and country-level covariates were employed to produce comprehensive and consistent estimates of prevalence and mortality. Stroke-specific disability weights were used to estimate years lived with disability and DALYs. Means and 95% uncertainty intervals (UIs) were calculated for prevalence, mortality and DALYs. The median of the percent change and 95% UI were determined for the period from 1990 to 2013. Results: In 2013, there were 97,792 (95% UI 90,564-106,016) prevalent cases of childhood IS and 67,621 (95% UI 62,899-72,214) prevalent cases of childhood HS, reflecting an increase of approximately 35% in the absolute numbers of prevalent childhood strokes since 1990. There were 33,069 (95% UI 28,627-38,998) deaths and 2,615,118 (95% UI 2,265,801-3,090,822) DALYs due to childhood stroke in 2013 globally, reflecting an approximately 200% decrease in the absolute numbers of death and DALYs in childhood stroke since 1990. Between 1990 and 2013, there were significant increases in the global prevalence rates of childhood IS, as well as significant decreases in the global death rate and DALYs rate of all strokes in those of age 0-19 years. While prevalence rates for childhood IS and HS decreased significantly in developed countries, a decline was seen only in HS, with no change in prevalence rates of IS, in developing countries. The childhood stroke DALY rates in 2013 were 13.3 (95% UI 10.6-17.1) for IS and 92.7 (95% UI 80.5-109.7) for HS per 100,000. While the prevalence of childhood IS compared to childhood HS was similar globally, the death rate and DALY rate of HS was 6- to 7-fold higher than that of IS. In 2013, the prevalence rate of both childhood IS and HS was significantly higher in developed countries than in developing countries. Conversely, both death and DALY rates for all stroke types were significantly lower in developed countries than in developing countries in 2013. Men showed a trend toward higher childhood stroke death rates (1.5 (1.3-1.8) per 100,000) than women (1.1 (0.9-1.5) per 100,000) and higher childhood stroke DALY rates (120.1 (100.8-143.4) per 100,000) than women (90.9 (74.6-122.4) per 100,000) globally in 2013. Conclusions: Globally, between 1990 and 2013, there was a significant increase in the absolute number of prevalent childhood strokes, while absolute numbers and rates of both deaths and DALYs declined significantly. The gap in childhood stroke burden between developed and developing countries is closing; however, in 2013, childhood stroke burden in terms of absolute numbers of prevalent strokes, deaths and DALYs remained much higher in developing countries. There is an urgent need to address these disparities with both global and country-level initiatives targeting prevention as well as improved access to acute and chronic stroke care."
research-article	NED441567	"Prevalence of Multiple Sclerosis in Tuscany (Central Italy): A Study Based on Validated Administrative Data Prevalence of Multiple Sclerosis in Tuscany (Central Italy): A Study Based on Validated Administrative Data Background: Multiple Sclerosis (MS) epidemiology in Italy is mainly based on population-based prevalence studies. Administrative data are an additional source of information, when available, in prevalence studies of chronic diseases such as MS. The aim of our study is to update the prevalence rate of MS in Tuscany (central Italy) as at 2011 using a validated case-finding algorithm based on administrative data. Methods: The prevalence was calculated using an algorithm based on the following administrative data: hospital discharge records, drug-dispensing records, disease-specific exemptions from copayment to health care, home and residential long-term care and inhabitant registry. To test algorithm sensitivity, we used a true-positive reference cohort of MS patients from the Tuscan MS register. To test algorithm specificity, we used another cohort of individuals who were presumably not affected by MS. Results: As at December 31, 2011, we identified 6,890 cases (4,738 females and 2,152 males) with a prevalence of 187.9 per 100,000. The sensitivity of algorithm was 98% and the specificity was 99.99%. Conclusions: We found a prevalence higher than the rates present in literature. Our algorithm, based on administrative data, can accurately identify MS patients; moreover, the resulting cohort is suitable to monitor disease care pathways."
review-article	NEN488393	Basic Research Advances on Pituitary Stem Cell Function and Regulation Basic Research Advances on Pituitary Stem Cell Function and Regulation As a central regulator of major physiological processes, the pituitary gland is a highly dynamic organ, capable of responding to hormonal demand and hypothalamic influence, through adapting secretion as well as remodelling cell numbers among its seven populations of differentiated cells. Stem cells of the pituitary have been shown to actively generate new cells during postnatal development but remain mostly quiescent during adulthood, where they persist as a long-lived population. Despite a significant body of research characterising attributes of anterior pituitary stem cells, the regulation of this population is poorly understood. A better grasp on the signalling mechanisms influencing stem proliferation and cell fate decisions can impact on our future treatments of pituitary gland disorders such as organ failure and pituitary tumours, which can disrupt endocrine homeostasis with life-long consequences. This minireview addresses the current methodologies aiming to understand better the attributes of pituitary stem cells and the normal regulation of this population in the organ, and discusses putative future avenues to manipulate pituitary stem cells during disease states or regenerative medicine approaches.
review-article	NEO433515	Peripheral Muscle Near-Infrared Spectroscopy in Neonates: Ready for Clinical Use? A Systematic Qualitative Review of the Literature Peripheral Muscle Near-Infrared Spectroscopy in Neonates: Ready for Clinical Use? A Systematic Qualitative Review of the Literature Background: Peripheral muscle near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) measurements are of increasing interest especially in the care of critically ill patients. Objective: The aim was to perform a systematic qualitative review on peripheral muscle NIRS measurements in the clinical care of term and preterm neonates. Methods: A systematic search of PubMed and Ovid Embase was performed using the following terms: neonate, neonates, newborn, newborns, infant, infants, near-infrared spectroscopy, NIRS, oxygenation, perfusion, oxygen extraction, peripheral, tissue, muscle, calf, forearm and thigh. Additional articles were identified by a manual search of the cited references. Only human studies were included. Results: Twenty-one studies were identified to use peripheral muscle NIRS measurements as a single method, 17 studies combined cerebral and peripheral muscle NIRS measurements and 1 study used multi-site NIRS measurements in human neonates. Two randomized studies were identified. Two additional publications were included because they provided important general information about peripheral muscle NIRS measurements. Conclusion: In the care of critically ill neonates peripheral muscle NIRS measurements alone or in combination with cerebral or multi-site NIRS measurements provide useful additional information about peripheral circulation and oxygenation. This method is a promising tool in the recognition of early states of centralization (compensated shock) in this vulnerable group of patients. However, before this method can be used in the clinical routine it has to be tested as monitoring to guide interventions in further studies.
research-article	NEO444244	"Effects of Phototherapy on Coronary Blood Flow in Healthy Neonates: A Pilot Study Effects of Phototherapy on Coronary Blood Flow in Healthy Neonates: A Pilot Study Background: Phototherapy has been reported to alter blood flow to various tissues. We hypothesized that during phototherapy the coronary blood flow will decrease because of a ‘steal effect' to the periphery. Objectives: To evaluate the effects of phototherapy on coronary blood flow in healthy, jaundiced, term neonates. Methods: Flow velocity [peak diastolic velocity (Vd)] and flow measures [diastolic time velocity integral (TVId) and flow index (FI)] in the left main (LM) and left anterior descending (LAD) coronary arteries were prospectively studied with 2D/pulsed Doppler ultrasound before, during and after phototherapy in 19 healthy term, jaundiced neonates (study group) and in matched nonjaundiced controls (25 neonates). Significance was set at p &lt; 0.05. Results: The neonates' characteristics were comparable in both groups. Sequential studies in the study group showed no significant decrease in measures of velocity and flow during phototherapy; however, there was a significant increase in some of these measures (Vd and TVId in the LM coronary artery, and Vd in the LAD coronary artery) after phototherapy. Velocity (Vd) and flow measures (TVId and FI) in the LAD coronary artery, but not in the LM coronary artery, were significantly lower when comparing the study group during phototherapy with the controls. In a multivariate model, phototherapy was an independent variable affecting Vd and TVId in LAD coronary arteries. Measures of cardiac output did not change significantly throughout the study. Conclusions: While part of our findings may suggest a modestly lower flow in coronary arteries during phototherapy, we conclude that no clinically significant alteration in coronary arterial flow occurs during phototherapy in healthy term neonates."
systematic-review	NEO493002	Prognostic Accuracy of Heart Rate Variability Analysis in Neonatal Encephalopathy: A Systematic Review Prognostic Accuracy of Heart Rate Variability Analysis in Neonatal Encephalopathy: A Systematic Review Background: Heart rate variability analysis offers real-time quantification of autonomic disturbance after perinatal asphyxia, and may therefore aid in disease stratification and prognostication after neonatal encephalopathy (NE). Objective: To systematically review the existing literature on the accuracy of early heart rate variability (HRV) to predict brain injury and adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes after NE. Design/Methods: We systematically searched the literature published between May 1947 and May 2018. We included all prospective and retrospective studies reporting HRV metrics, within the first 7 days of life in babies with NE, and its association with adverse outcomes (defined as evidence of brain injury on magnetic resonance imaging and/or abnormal neurodevelopment at ≥1 year of age). We extracted raw data wherever possible to calculate the prognostic indices with confidence intervals. Results: We retrieved 379 citations, 5 of which met the criteria. One further study was excluded as it analysed an already-included cohort. The 4 studies provided data on 205 babies, 80 (39%) of whom had adverse outcomes. Prognostic accuracy was reported for 12 different HRV metrics and the area under the curve (AUC) varied between 0.79 and 0.94. The best performing metric reported in the included studies was the relative power of high-frequency band, with an AUC of 0.94. Conclusions: HRV metrics are a promising bedside tool for early prediction of brain injury and neurodevelopmental outcome in babies with NE. Due to the small number of studies available, their heterogeneity and methodological limitations, further research is needed to refine this tool so that it can be used in clinical practice.
review-article	NIM494761	Neuroimmune and Inflammatory Signals in Complex Disorders of the Central Nervous System Neuroimmune and Inflammatory Signals in Complex Disorders of the Central Nervous System An extensive microglial-astrocyte-monocyte-neuronal cross talk seems to be crucial for normal brain function, development, and recovery. However, under certain conditions neuroinflammatory interactions between brain cells and neuroimmune cells influence disease outcome and brain pathology. Microglial cells express a range of functional states with dynamically pleomorphic profiles from a surveilling status of synaptic transmission to an active player in major events of development such as synaptic elimination, regeneration, and repair. Also, inflammation mediates a series of neurotoxic roles in neuropsychiatric conditions and neurodegenerative diseases. The present review discusses data on the involvement of neuroinflammatory conditions that alter neuroimmune interactions in four different pathologies. In the first section of this review, we discuss the ability of the early developing brain to respond to a focal lesion with a rapid compensatory plasticity of intact axons and the role of microglial activation and proinflammatory cytokines in brain repair. In the second section, we present data of neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative disorders and discuss the role of reactive astrocytes in motor neuron toxicity and the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In the third section, we discuss major depressive disorders as the consequence of dysfunctional interactions between neural and immune signals that result in increased peripheral immune responses and increase proinflammatory cytokines. In the last section, we discuss autism spectrum disorders and altered brain circuitries that emerge from abnormal long-term responses of innate inflammatory cytokines and microglial phenotypic dysfunctions.
review-article	NNI365802	Prevention of Intrauterine Growth Restriction and Preterm Birth with Presumptive Antibiotic Treatment of Pregnant Women: A Literature Review Prevention of Intrauterine Growth Restriction and Preterm Birth with Presumptive Antibiotic Treatment of Pregnant Women: A Literature Review Intrauterine growth restriction and preterm birth (PTB) account for a large share of global child mortality, morbidity and developmental loss. Of the numerous risk factors for these conditions, maternal infections have been most consistently identified. Our aim was to study if presumptive antibiotic treatment of pregnant women before any signs of the onset of labor would promote fetal growth and reduce the incidence of PTB or low birthweight (LBW). In a systematic literature search, we identified 14 clinical trials of sufficient quality. Eight trials concluded that there was a positive effect on one or both of the conditions, and others found no such association. The trials reporting an effect were typically conducted in Sub-Saharan Africa (6 trials) and with broadest spectrum antibiotics, whereas data from India (2) suggested no intervention effect and trials in the US (5) or Europe (1) yielded both positive and negative findings. We conclude that appropriately chosen presumptive antimicrobial treatment of pregnant women, targeting infections in the reproductive tract but also other maternal infections such as malaria, other parasitic diseases, skin infections, and periodontitis, can in selected contexts promote fetal growth and reduce the incidence of PTB and LBW.
review-article	NNI381998	Macronutrient Metabolism in Starvation and Stress Macronutrient Metabolism in Starvation and Stress In starvation and to a lesser extent in stress starvation, the loss of protein mass is spared as much as possible. This metabolic arrangement must have developed under the influence of evolutionary pressure in view of the importance of protein mass for function and longevity. Peripheral adipose tissue mass is only limiting when its mass is extremely small. Protein is the predominant precursor of glucose in (stress) starvation and glucose is an essential substrate for the synthesis and maintenance of cells and matrix and for the control of the redox state. To spare protein, glucose should be used efficiently only for those purposes that cannot be achieved by fat. It is suggested that this is achieved by limiting full glucose oxidation and increasing fatty acid and ketone body oxidation, which most likely can also largely cover energy needs of the central nervous system. In stress states, net negative nitrogen balance (catabolism) largely results from net losses of peripheral protein mass, predominantly muscles, whereas central organs (e.g. the liver), the immune system and wound healing are anabolic. A number of factors are responsible for a net negative nitrogen balance which may ultimately lead to death if stress persists. In stress, the amino acid mix derived from peripheral (predominantly muscle) tissues is modified in interplay with the liver and to a minor extent the kidney. This mix is different in nonstressed conditions, containing substantially increased amounts of the nonessential amino acids glutamine, alanine, glycine and (hydroxy)proline. Part of the amino acid skeletons released by muscles are substrates to produce glucose in the liver and kidney. Glucose and the amino acids produced especially serve as substrates for cell proliferation and matrix deposition. The catabolic processes in peripheral tissues cannot be countered completely by adequate nutritional support as long as stress persists. This metabolic arrangement dictates a nutritional mix containing liberal amounts of protein and carbohydrates and addition of lipids to cover energy requirements.
review-article	NNI486491	Fat Tissue Growth and Development in Humans Fat Tissue Growth and Development in Humans Lipid storage and release from fat cells in adipose tissue are key factors in the regulation of the energy balance. During infancy and adolescence, adipose tissue is growing by a combination of increase in fat cell size (to a lesser extent) and (above all) the number of these cells. In adults, fat cell number is constant over time in spite of a large turnover (about 10% of the fat cells per year) when body weight is stable. A decrease in body weight only changes fat cell size (becoming smaller), whereas an increase in body weight causes elevation of both fat cell size and number in adults. An important source of renewal of fat cells during the entire life span is the bone marrow. This is most apparent in obesity when ∼20% of all fat cells are derived from the bone marrow. Fat cell turnover is also important for the size of fat cells. Low turnover may cause large fat cells which, in turn, is linked to cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. There is also a rapid turnover of fat cell lipids, which constitute a single active pool and are renewed about 6 times during the life span of individual fat cells. Overweight and obesity are associated with decreased lipid turnover due to high input in combination with low output of lipids from the fat cells. Low fat cell lipid turnover is associated with insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. Thus, changes in the turnover of fat cells and their lipid content are important for the development of adipose tissue mass and its cellularity (fat cell size and number) and, in turn, for metabolic disturbances.
review-article	NSG482001	Depression in the Context of Medical Disorders: New Pharmacological Pathways Revisited Depression in the Context of Medical Disorders: New Pharmacological Pathways Revisited The depressive state has been characterised as one of elevated inflammation, changed cardiovascular parameters and a deranged metabolic situation all of which holds promise for a better understanding and handling of treatment-resistance in affective disorders as well as for future developments in treatment algorithms. In this context several biomarkers are differentially regulated by antidepressant treatment and connected to metabolic, inflammatory, cardiovascular and apoptotic components of the pathophysiology, i.e. adiponectin, apolipoprotein-B, B-type natriuretic peptide, cortisol, CRP, cysteine, homocysteine, fibrinogen, adiponectin, BMI, glycated hemoglobin A1c, leptin, interferon-gamma, high-density lipoprotein, interleukin interleukin-1alpha, -1beta, -2, -4, -5, -6, -8, -10, -12, -13, -17, insulin-like growth factor-1, low-density lipoprotein, myeloperoxidase, osteoprotegerin, tumour necrosis factor alpha, troponins, triglycerides etc. In this context antidepressants exert different modulatory effects on the outcome, incidence and mortality concerning several severe disorders, i.e. cancer, diabetes, stroke, inflammation, stroke and cardiovascular risk. Vice versa different drugs used in the treatment of these disorders have a favourable effect in depressive states, e.g. statins, aspirine, NSAIDs, pioglitazone, celecoxib, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma agonists and minocycline. In this review, actions of different antidepressant treatment strategies on cancer, stroke, diabetes and cardiovascular disorders are shown and the influence on the outcome of the disorders is differentially discussed. In conclusion a hypothetic model for the implication of actual findings in everyday clinical practice is proposed. In this context personalized treatment could be used to tailor treatment to specific individuals according to their clinical endophenotypes. Moreover a potential target for the development of novel intervention strategies might be used.
research-article	OFA444173	"Overweight and Underweight Prevalence Trends in Children from Romania - Pooled Analysis of Cross-Sectional Studies between 2006 and 2015 Overweight and Underweight Prevalence Trends in Children from Romania - Pooled Analysis of Cross-Sectional Studies between 2006 and 2015 Aim: High-quality national representative data on obesity in Romanian children are needed to shape public health policies. To provide a unified data landscape on national prevalence, trends and other factors associated with underweight, overweight, and obesity in Romanian children aged 6-19 years, across the last decade (2006-2015). Methods: Using a common protocol, we selected published and unpublished studies that measured Romanian children in schools between 2006 and 2015. Children's BMI was classified using the current WHO, IOTF, and CDC references. Results: 25,060 children from 8 Romanian counties were included in the analysis. The prevalence of underweight children was 5%/4.5%/8.5% (WHO/IOTF/CDC), while the prevalence of overweight (including obese) children was 28.3%/23%/23.2% (WHO/IOTF/CDC). The prevalence of overweight children did not change significantly over the last decade (chi-square test p = 0.6). Male gender (odds ratio (OR) 1.37; 95% CI 1.29-1.45, compared to female); prepubertal age (OR = 3.86; 95% CI 3.41-4.36,compared to postpubertal age), and urban environment (OR 1.12; 95% CI 1.01-1.26, compared to rural environment) had higher risk for overweight. Conclusion: While the prevalence of underweight children was low, almost one in four children in Romania was overweight or obese (according to WHO criteria) between 2006 and 2015. This prevalence remained relatively stable over the last decade. Male gender, prepubertal age, and urban environment, were the most relevant risk factors associated with overweight status in Romanian children."
case-report	OOP438944	Bilateral Diffuse Uveal Melanocytic Proliferation Presenting as a Giant Unilateral Choroidal Nevus: A Case Report Bilateral Diffuse Uveal Melanocytic Proliferation Presenting as a Giant Unilateral Choroidal Nevus: A Case Report Background/Aims: The aim of our study was to report a case of bilateral diffuse uveal melanocytic proliferation (BDUMP) with a markedly asymmetric presentation and fundoscopic response to palliative chemotherapy. Case Report: We report a 67-year-old Caucasian man who presented with vision loss in his right eye. The best-corrected visual acuities were 2/10 in the right eye and 10/10 in the left eye, and biomicroscopy revealed bilateral mild cataracts. Fundoscopy of the right eye showed a macular flat and pigmented lesion extending beyond the posterior pole with areas of giraffe-type pigmentation and an overlying exudative retinal detachment. Nothing remarkable was detected in the left eye apart from a small round hypopigmented area of retinal pigment epithelium atrophy in the papillomacular bundle. BDUMP was diagnosed, and the workup for systemic malignancy revealed a pulmonary adenocarcinoma. After chemotherapy, not only did the right eye's visual acuity improve and the serous detachment resolve, but also the pigmentation decreased. Conclusion: BDUMP presentation can be markedly asymmetric and resemble a giant unilateral choroidal nevus. Response to chemotherapy was unique not only for the usual retinal detachment resolution, but also because of an evident regression of pigmentation.
case-report	OOP452151	Recurrent Orbital Solitary Fibrous Tumor in a 12-Year-Old Recurrent Orbital Solitary Fibrous Tumor in a 12-Year-Old Purpose: To report the clinical features and pathology of orbital solitary fibrous tumors and present a case of a recurrence in a 12-year-old boy. Methods: Case Report. Results: A 12-year-old boy presented to our institution with double vision in upgaze for 6 months. Examination revealed 3 mm of left-sided proptosis, hypoglobus, and -3 impairment of supraduction. Magnetic resonance imaging of the orbits showed an avidly enhancing mass within the superolateral aspect of the orbit. Biopsy revealed a solitary fibrous tumor with STAT6 and CD34 positivity. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography was negative for metastatic disease. The tumor underwent excision. However, 4 months postoperatively, imaging revealed changes consistent with recurrence. A repeat lateral orbitotomy with orbital rim marginotomy was performed with complete gross excision of the tumor. The patient remains tumor-free 22 months after reoperation. Conclusion: Orbital solitary fibrous tumor rarely occurs in the pediatric population. Despite initial complete gross tumor excision, this case represents the youngest individual with a recurrence to the authors' knowledge. This case of rapid recurrence may have been due to tumor seeding at the time of initial biopsy or other factors. This case increases the known spectrum of orbital solitary fibrous tumors.
case-report	OOP462975	Choroidal Melanoma Mimicker: A Case of Metastatic Clear-Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Choroidal Melanoma Mimicker: A Case of Metastatic Clear-Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Choroidal melanoma is the most common primary intraocular malignancy, yet metastatic disease remains the most common malignancy of the eye. Differentiating these entities is essential as treatment, systemic associations, and prognosis vary dramatically between the two. Established diagnostic criteria are accurate for the diagnosis of uveal melanoma. Yet, metastatic disease may be misdiagnosed as a uveal melanoma in rare cases. We report a case of metastatic clear-cell renal cell carcinoma masquerading as uveal melanoma. A 73-year-old Caucasian man with a history of renal cell carcinoma presented with a 15 × 12 × 7 mm homogenous, pigmented, and acoustically hollow mass without hemorrhage or exudation. The patient was initially treated with plaque radiotherapy with good tumor regression. However, the patient developed pain and vision loss due to total exudative retinal detachment. Subsequent enucleation allowed histopathologic confirmation of clear-cell renal cell carcinoma. Nine years following enucleation, the patient remains in complete remission without evidence of other systemic metastases. Renal cell carcinoma should be considered when evaluating patients with probable uveal melanoma. Delayed-onset ocular metastasis from renal cell carcinoma exhibits an atypical clinical course with the possibility of durable remission following enucleation.
case-report	OOP464467	Primary Conjunctival Tuberculosis Presenting as Dry Eye: A Rare Case Report and Review of the Literature Primary Conjunctival Tuberculosis Presenting as Dry Eye: A Rare Case Report and Review of the Literature Primary conjunctival tuberculosis is very rare in the developed countries. In an endemic country like India, it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any unusual conjunctival lesion with unilaterality, chronicity, and nonresolution of symptoms after steroid use. We present the case of a 52-year-old female who presented with unilateral itching and blurring of vision for 20 days. There were irregular nodular elevated areas with shrinkage of the lower palpebral conjunctiva. A biopsy of the lesion revealed necrotizing epithelioid cell granulomas along with Langhans type of giant cells. However, no acid-fast bacilli were seen on Ziehl-Neelsen stain. Systemic examination of the patient was normal, and there was no evidence of pulmonary tuberculosis. Polymerase chain reaction of conjunctival scrapings was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The patient was started on antitubercular drugs. We present this very rare case of primary tuberculosis of the conjunctiva presenting with dryness of the eye.
case-report	OOP479524	Juvenile Xanthogranuloma in a Pediatric Patient with Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis Juvenile Xanthogranuloma in a Pediatric Patient with Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis Purpose: To report a case of juvenile xanthogranuloma that simulated a chalazion and to discuss the association between juvenile xanthogranuloma and Langerhans cell histiocytosis. Method: Case report and review of literature. Results: A 13-year-old boy with a prior history of Langerhans cell histiocytosis was referred to our clinic for a possible chalazion. The patient had undergone treatment for Langerhans cell histiocytosis 10 years prior. The patient underwent an excisional biopsy. Histopathology revealed a proliferation of histiocytes and lymphocytes with Touton giant cells, consistent with a diagnosis of juvenile xanthogranuloma. Conclusions: Though the relationship between Langerhans cell histiocytosis and juvenile xanthogranuloma has yet to be fully elucidated, juvenile xanthogranuloma should be included in the differential diagnosis for any former Langerhans cell histiocytosis patient presenting with a new cutaneous lesion.
case-report	OOP486039	Choroidal Lymphoma Discovered on Ultrasound in a Patient with Suspected Corneal Tumor Choroidal Lymphoma Discovered on Ultrasound in a Patient with Suspected Corneal Tumor Background/Aims: To report the case of a 77-year-old male with a blind, painful eye, referred for suspected corneal mass, with finding of choroidal B-cell lymphoma on pathology of enucleated globe. Methods: This is a retrospective case report of a single patient. Results: A 77-year-old male with a longstanding history of poor vision in the left eye was referred for a scarred, vascularized corneal mass. The patient had reported occasional mild ocular discomfort in the left eye and loss of light perception over the last year. Visual acuity was 20/20 in the right eye and no light perception in the left eye. Intraocular pressure was 32 mm Hg in the left eye. Fundoscopic visualization was not possible due to corneal opacity. B-scan ultrasound showed an infiltrative, low-reflective choroidal lesion and inferior retinal detachment. Pathology from the enucleated globe revealed diffuse sheets of CD20+ small B cells replacing the choroid, characteristic of a low-grade small B-cell extranodal marginal zone lymphoma. Conclusion: This is an unusual presentation of choroidal lymphoma in an eye with severe corneal opacification and scarring, and underscores the diagnostic value of ultrasonography in examination of eyes without view to the posterior segment.
case-report	OOP486420	Primary Extraskeletal Osteosarcoma Arising from the Optic Nerve: A Rare Case Report Primary Extraskeletal Osteosarcoma Arising from the Optic Nerve: A Rare Case Report Orbital location of extraskeletal osteosarcoma is extremely rare with only 4 cases reported so far in the English literature. We present the case of a 32-year-old female who presented with proptosis and complete loss of vision of the left eye. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography scan showed a densely calcified lobulated lesion in the left optic nerve showing strong enhancement. A left fronto-occipito-zygomatic osteotomy was conducted and a greyish brown tumor was identified. Histopathological and immunohistochemical examination of the curetted material revealed it to be extraskeletal osteosarcoma. A left partial maxillectomy with ethmoidectomy and left orbital exenteration was done and the patient was advised chemotherapy with radiotherapy.
case-report	OOP490706	Regression of Sebaceous Carcinoma of the Eyelid after a Small Incisional Biopsy: Report of Two Cases Regression of Sebaceous Carcinoma of the Eyelid after a Small Incisional Biopsy: Report of Two Cases Purpose: To report 2 cases of regression of sebaceous carcinoma of the eyelid after a small incisional biopsy. Methods: Clinical, imaging, and histopathological findings are presented, with a literature review on regressing ocular tumors. Results: Our first patient was a 79-year-old man who presented with a 10-month history of progressive left upper eyelid ptosis caused by an eyelid tumor with orbital involvement and confirmed on magnetic resonance imaging. Our second patient was a 70-year-old woman who presented with ptosis with a left upper eyelid mass. Both patients underwent a small incisional biopsy of their lesion. The histopathological diagnoses in both cases were consistent with sebaceous carcinoma. Both patients refused exenteration. Follow-up clinical examination and imaging disclosed total regression of the ptosis and of the neoplasm with no sign of recurrence in both patients over a 4-year period for Case 1 and a 7-year period for Case 2. Conclusion: Regression following incisional biopsy of basal cell, squamous cell, and Merkel cell carcinoma, including of the eyelid, is well documented. To the best of our knowledge, our 2 cases of sebaceous carcinoma are the first to be reported with total involution clinically and on imaging of the tumor following partial incisional biopsy.
case-report	OOP490913	Amelanotic Ciliochoroidal Melanoma in a Patient with Oculocutaneous Albinism Amelanotic Ciliochoroidal Melanoma in a Patient with Oculocutaneous Albinism To report a case of amelanotic ciliochoroidal melanoma in a patient with oculocutaneous albinism. A 76-year-old Caucasian male with a past medical history of oculocutaneous albinism and recurrent urothelial carcinoma was found to have a mass in the left eye, suspicious for ciliochoroidal melanoma. On examination, visual acuity was 20/400 in both eyes (OU). External examination showed iris transillumination defects. Funduscopic examination OU revealed blonde fundus, optic nerve hypoplasia, and foveal hypoplasia, confirmed on optical coherence tomography. Funduscopic examination of the left eye revealed an inferonasal amelanotic ciliochoroidal mass, measuring 12.0 mm × 13.0 mm × 8.8 mm. There was visible intrinsic tumor vasculature and overlying subretinal fluid. B-scan ultrasonography demonstrated a hypoechoic, dome-shaped mass. The clinical and imaging features were consistent with amelanotic ciliochoroidal melanoma. The patient was treated with iodine-125 plaque radiotherapy. At the 4-month follow-up, the tumor demonstrated regression from 8.8 mm to 3.2 mm in thickness. Despite the apparent lack of uveal pigmentation, patients with oculocutaneous albinism can develop uveal melanoma.
case-report	OOP494978	"Two Late Recurrences of Conjunctival Melanoma Two Late Recurrences of Conjunctival Melanoma Purpose: To report a patient who developed two late recurrences of conjunctival melanoma (CoM), of which one occurred after orbital exenteration. Methods: We describe the case of a patient based on clinical and histopathological examination. Results: A 52-year-old patient was treated with local excision and cryotherapy for a CoM with primary acquired melanosis (PAM) near the limbus of the right eye. Twenty-one years later, a recurrence developed in the superior fornix of the same eye in an area with widespread PAM; an orbital exenteration was performed. After another 4 years, a painful nodule developed subcutaneously at the inferior margin of the right orbital socket. Pathology showed a recurrence of CoM with a BRAF V600K mutation, similar to both of the previous lesions (of 25 and 4 years earlier). The nodule was excised without additional therapy. No recurrences or metastases have been observed in the next 2.5 years. The proposed mechanism for the recurrence after surgery could be via dormant tumor cells that have spread prior to the procedure or via residual intraepithelial malignant melanocytes. Conclusion: Very late recurrences of CoM are rare but may occur. Our case illustrates the need for long-term awareness of doctors and patients, even after extensive surgical procedures such as orbital exenteration."
research-article	ORE444327	Ocular Erythropoietin Penetration after Subconjunctival Administration in Glaucomatous Rats Ocular Erythropoietin Penetration after Subconjunctival Administration in Glaucomatous Rats Purpose: The present study aimed to determine whether the subconjunctival administration of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) reached the retina in glaucoma conditions. After subconjunctival rHuEPO administration, in a rat glaucoma model, erythropoietin (EPO) distribution in the rat's retina was studied by immunohistochemistry. Methods: Female Wistar Hannover albino rats (n = 15) were divided into 2 groups, control (n = 3) and treated (n = 12). The animals' unilateral glaucoma was induced by coagulation of episcleral veins, under general anaesthesia. After vein coagulation, 1,000 IU of rHuEPO were administered by the subconjunctival route to the treated group (n = 12). The control group (n = 3) received only a subconjunctival saline injection. The contralateral eye of each animal remained untouched. Treated group animals were euthanized at different time points, i.e. days 1, 3, 7 and 14. Bilateral enucleation was performed, and EPO distribution in the rat's retina was assessed by immunohistochemistry. Results: Glaucoma was confirmed by results of repeated intraocular pressure measurements over the experimental period. In the test group, EPO was identified in different neuroretinal cells, showing a stronger immunostaining signal during the first 2 time points in the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) layer. EPO protein was still present on day 14 after the subconjunctival injection. EPO was not detected in any of the control eyes or in any contralateral eye of the treated group. Conclusion: When administered subconjunctivally to glaucomatous eyes, rHuEPO reached the RGC layer and was still present at least 14 days after administration. The subconjunctival route was shown to be a promising alternative for ocular EPO delivery in glaucomatous conditions in a rat animal model.
meta-analysis	ORE486576	"Efficacy and Safety of Bevacizumab Combined with Mitomycin C or 5-Fluorouracil in Primary Trabeculectomy: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials Efficacy and Safety of Bevacizumab Combined with Mitomycin C or 5-Fluorouracil in Primary Trabeculectomy: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials Aim: The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab combined with antimetabolite as an adjunctive therapy in primary trabeculectomy for glaucoma. Materials and Methods: PubMed, Cochrane Library, and EMBASE were searched for relevant randomized controlled trials. Efficacy was evaluated by the postoperative mean intraocular pressure (IOP), complete success, and qualified success rates. Safety was evaluated by postoperative complications and surgical interventions. Results: A total of 3 randomized controlled trials were included in the meta-analysis. The primary outcome was postoperative mean IOP at the 12-month follow-up. No significant difference in IOP was found between the bevacizumab + antimetabolite (mitomycin c or 5-fluorouracil) group and the antimetabolite alone group (weighted mean difference –0.27; 95% CI –1.38 to 0.83). There were no significant differences in complete success rates, qualified success rates, postoperative complications, and surgical interventions between the experimental treatment group and the conventional treatment group. Conclusions: Results of the meta-analysis demonstrated that the combination of bevacizumab (1.25 mg/mL) with a regular concentration of antimetabolite did not show more benefit or harm compared with using antimetabolite alone. Further randomized controlled trials are needed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab combined with lower concentrations and a shorter application time of antimetabolite."
review-article	ORT487510	The Impact of Surgical Complications on Cancer Recurrence Rates: A Literature Review The Impact of Surgical Complications on Cancer Recurrence Rates: A Literature Review Introduction: The inflammatory response to a post-operative infection can increase the risk of tumour recurrence in cancer through the release of pro-inflammatory mediators. The aim of this study was review the literature to assess the relationship between post-operative complications and cancer recurrence. Methods: We performed a literature review of the mechanism of such an association and looked at evidence in different cancer subtypes. Results: A relationship has been identified for many cancer subtypes, and multiple theories have been proposed for the mechanism of this association. Methods to reduce post-operative complications may impact positively on cancer recurrence rates. Conclusion: This review demonstrates that wound complications after surgery can have significant implications for cancer patients. Strategies are required to minimize the risk of post-operative wound complications in patients undergoing cancer resection.
review-article	PAT358306	Cell Purification: A New Challenge for Biobanks Cell Purification: A New Challenge for Biobanks Performing ‘-omics' analyses on heterogeneous biological tissue samples, such as blood or bone marrow, can lead to biased or even erroneous results, particularly when the targeted cells and/or molecules are present at relatively low percentages/amounts. In such cases, whole sample analysis will most probably dilute and mask the features of the cell and/or molecules of interest, and this will negatively impact the results and their interpretation. Therefore, frequently it is critically important to have well-characterized and high-quality purified cell populations for the reliable detection of subtle variations in their specific features, such as gene expression profile, protein expression pattern and metabolic status. Biobanks are technological platforms which aim to provide researchers access to a large number of high-quality biological samples and their associated data, particularly to support high-quality scientific and clinical research projects, and such projects will benefit enormously by having access to high-quality purified cell populations or their biological components (e.g. DNA, RNA, proteins). Therefore, a clear opportunity exists for preparative cell sorting techniques in biobanks. Although multiple different cell purification approaches exist or are under development (e.g. cell purification techniques based on cell adherence, density and/or cell size properties, methods based on antibody binding as well as new lab-on-a-chip purification techniques), the choice for a specific technology depends on multiple variables, including cell recovery, purity and yield, among others. In addition, most cell purification approaches are not well suited for high-throughput (HT) purification of multiple cell populations coexisting in a sample. Here we review the most (currently) used cell sorting methods that may be applied for sample preparation in biobanks. For the different approaches, technical considerations about their advantages and limitations are highlighted, and the requirements to be met by a HT cell sorting technology to be used in biobanks are also discussed.
review-article	PAT362648	The Role of Diagnostic Tissue in Research The Role of Diagnostic Tissue in Research There are two broad classes (or categories) of excised human tissue: diagnostic tissue (DT) and research tissue (RT). Classification of excised human tissue does not define its ultimate use and ultimate use of excised human tissue does not define its classification. While both DT and RT can be used for research, DT has specific requirements with respect to how it must be handled if and when being accessed for research. We highlight distinguishing features of DT: (1) it is a clinical record, (2) it must be identifiable to a specific individual, (3) it is stewarded by pathology departments/clinical laboratories and (4) it has a mandatory retention period. We discuss how the further sub-classification of DT into archived DT (aDT) and excess DT (eDT) impacts the nature of its role in research. We examine the concept of DT as a clinical record and emphasize the impact of mandatory retention as it applies to how DT may be accessed for research purposes. We explain the role of post-retention eDT as a source of RT as well as procedures for access to in-retention aDT for research. Clarity of such issues will facilitate responsible access to DT for research.
research-article	PHA443965	Silodosin, an α1A-Adrenoceptor Antagonist, May Ameliorate Ischemia-Induced Bladder Denervation and Detrusor Dysfunction by Improving Bladder Blood Flow Silodosin, an α1A-Adrenoceptor Antagonist, May Ameliorate Ischemia-Induced Bladder Denervation and Detrusor Dysfunction by Improving Bladder Blood Flow Background/Aims: This study was performed to investigate the detailed mechanism underlying the effects of the selective α1A-adrenoceptor antagonist, silodosin, on bladder function in a rat model of atherosclerosis-induced chronic bladder ischemia (CBI). Methods: The CBI model was prepared by balloon endothelial injury of the bilateral iliac arteries in male rats. Using an osmotic pump, the CBI rats received either silodosin or vehicle alone subcutaneously for 8 weeks. Rats received a 2% cholesterol diet throughout the experiment. Bladder blood flow (BBF) was measured. Immunohistochemical staining was performed to determine the nerve distribution and nerve growth factor expression in the bladder. Bladders were used for muscle strip contraction analysis. The expression levels of muscarinic M2 and M3 receptors were measured. Results: Silodosin abrogated the decrease in BBF in CBI rats. Silodosin prevented the decrease in nerve distribution and increase in nerve growth factor expression in the CBI model. Bladder contractile response was reduced in the CBI group. Silodosin ameliorated the effect on the bladder contractile response. The level of muscarinic M3 receptor mRNA present in the bladder of CBI rats was increased by silodosin. Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that silodosin ameliorates the denervation of the bladder and effects on detrusor contractile function under ischemic conditions by restoring BBF.
review-article	PHG444478	"Do Public Involvement Activities in Biomedical Research and Innovation Recruit Representatively? A Systematic Qualitative Review Do Public Involvement Activities in Biomedical Research and Innovation Recruit Representatively? A Systematic Qualitative Review Background: Public involvement activities (PIAs) may contribute to the governance of ethically challenging biomedical research and innovation by informing, consulting with and engaging the public in developments and decision-making processes. For PIAs to capture a population's preferences (e.g. on issues in whole genome sequencing, biobanks or genome editing), a central methodological requirement is to involve a sufficiently representative subgroup of the general public. While the existing literature focusses on theoretical and normative aspects of ‘representation', this study assesses empirically how such considerations are implemented in practice. It evaluates how PIA reports describe representation objectives, the recruitment process and levels of representation achieved. Methods: PIA reports were included from a systematic literature search if they directly reported a PIA conducted in a relevant discipline such as genomics, biobanks, biotechnology or others. PIA reports were analyzed with thematic text analysis. The text analysis was guided by an assessment matrix based on PIA-specific guidelines and frameworks. Results: We included 46 relevant reports, most focusing on issues in genomics. 27 reports (59%) explicitly described representation objectives, though mostly without adjusting eligibility criteria and recruiting methods to the specific objective. 11 reports (24%) explicitly reported to have achieved the intended representation; the rest either reported failure or were silent on this issue. Conclusion: Representation of study samples in PIAs in biomedical research and innovation is currently not reported systematically. Improved reporting on representation would not only improve the validity and value of PIAs, but could also contribute to PIA results being used more often in relevant policy and decision-making processes."
research-article	PHG490235	Controversies among Cancer Registry Participants, Genomic Researchers, and Institutional Review Boards about Returning Participants’ Genomic Results Controversies among Cancer Registry Participants, Genomic Researchers, and Institutional Review Boards about Returning Participants’ Genomic Results Objectives: Genomic information will increasingly be used to aid in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disease. Several national initiatives are paving the way for this new reality, while also promoting new models of participant-engaged research. We compare the opinions of research participants in a cancer registry, human genetic researchers, and institutional review board (IRB) professionals about the return of individual-level genetic results (ROR). Methods: Online surveys were administered to participants in a cancer registry (n = 450) and overlapping questions were compared to our previous online national surveys of human genetic researchers (n = 351) and IRB professionals (n = 208). Results: The majority of respondents agreed that researchers have an obligation to return individual results when they would affect a participant’s health. While 77% of registry participants favored ROR if the researcher feels the participant might be interested in the results, only 30% of the IRB professionals and 25% of the genetic researchers agreed with this statement. Conclusions: Significant differences emerged between the stakeholder groups in several ROR scenarios. Policies that are acceptable to participants, researchers and IRBs, and that ensure human subject protections and facilitate research are needed.
case-report	PJG490921	Recurrent Gastrointestinal Bleeding from Dieulafoy’s Lesions in a Patient with Type 1 von Willebrand Disease: A Rare Association Recurrent Gastrointestinal Bleeding from Dieulafoy’s Lesions in a Patient with Type 1 von Willebrand Disease: A Rare Association Von Willebrand disease (vWD) is the most prevalent hereditary bleeding disorder, affecting 0.6–1.3% of the population. While gastrointestinal bleeding from angiodysplasia is a well-known complication of vWD, the same is not true for Dieulafoy’s lesions (DLs). We report the case of a 21-year-old black male with type 1 vWD and 2 previous hospital admissions for severe anemia with no visible blood loss. In both episodes, DLs were identified and treated endoscopically, one in the stomach and another in the duodenum. The patient presented to the emergency department in September 2016 with dizziness, fatigue, and again no visible blood loss. He was hemodynamically stable, and laboratory workup showed a hemoglobin level of 3.4 g/dL. After transfusion of packed red blood cells, intravenous iron, and von Willebrand factor/factor VIII concentrate infusions, the patient underwent upper endoscopy and colonoscopy, which were normal. Small-bowel capsule endoscopy showed dark blood and a fresh clot in the proximal jejunum. At this site, push enteroscopy identified a pulsatile vessel with an overlying minimal mucosal defect, consistent with a DL, type 2b of the Yano-Yamamoto classification, which was successfully treated with adrenaline and 2 hemoclips. The patient remains stable after 18 months of follow-up, with a hemoglobin level of 13.2 g/dL. This is a case of recurrent severe occult gastrointestinal bleeding from multiple DL in a young patient with vWD who is otherwise healthy. Three other cases of DL bleeding in the setting of vWD have been reported in the literature, suggesting a possible association between these 2 entities.
research-article	PJP479778	RegisPt: Registry of Registries in Portugal – Design, Data Model, and Functionalities RegisPt: Registry of Registries in Portugal – Design, Data Model, and Functionalities Introduction: The number and quality of existing patient registries are not known in Portugal. In order to improve the knowledge regarding this issue, an interactive tool (RegisPt) was developed to identify and characterize all available patient registries in our country. This article aims to describe the RegisPt design, data model, and due functionalities. Methods: RegisPt was developed in Microsoft Office Access 2010 and all variables definitions were done according to standardized international classifications. A review of the available literature and web resources was performed in order to identify all relevant patient registries. Results: The RegisPt platform is divided into 5 core modules containing comprehensive information from each patient registry (general data, registry design, characterization, effectiveness, and publications). Effectiveness is of utmost importance for health technology assessment and is divided into 2 sections: the exposure (health care service, pharmaceutical drugs, and medical devices) and the outcomes (safety, clinical, and economic). The RegisPt platform allows adding and editing registries as well as consulting all available registries in an interactive and user-friendly way, using a preferred query (e.g., registry name, institution, and therapeutic area). About 50 patient registries were identified and characterized in Portugal in accordance with the patient registry definition of the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR). Discussion: The RegisPt is a first step to better understand and use the available resources for health research in Portugal. RegisPt can promote collaboration between researchers and registry owners and encourage the efficient use of resources and may improve the access to registries. This project may also be useful to identify therapeutic areas still lacking patient registries and to optimize existing ones in the country, by comparing registry design, quality, and functional strategies. In the future, this valuable platform may be particularly relevant for researchers and authorities aiming to carry out health technology assessment.
research-article	PJP493987	"The Prevalence of Overweight and Obesity in Adolescents from 1988 to 2014: Results from the HBSC Portuguese Survey The Prevalence of Overweight and Obesity in Adolescents from 1988 to 2014: Results from the HBSC Portuguese Survey Objective: Using a national representative sample of Portuguese adolescents, this study aimed to report the prevalence of overweight and obesity over 16 years, from 1998 to 2014. Methods: The total sample comprised 26,479 adolescents (12,711 boys and 13,768 girls) aged 11–16 years (mean age ± SD = 13.5 ± 1.7) from the Health Behaviour in School-aged Children (HBSC) Portuguese survey cohorts from 1998 (n = 5,999), 2002 (n = 5,454), 2006 (n = 4,430), 2010 (n = 4,702), and 2014 (n = 5,894). Weight and height were self-reported. The prevalence of overweight and obesity was calculated along with a 95% confidence interval (CI). Results: The highest prevalence of overweight and obesity was achieved in 2010 (20.5%; 95% CI: 19.5, 21.9) and the lowest in 1998 (17.8%; 95% CI: 16.8, 18.8). The results of trend tests between 1998 and 2014 show that there was no significant change in overweight and obesity prevalence. Although the prevalence of obesity increased from 1998 to 2014 for the entire sample (0.8%; 95% CI: –5.5, 7.0), for boys (1.1%; 95% CI: –4.1, 6.3), and girls (0.5%; 95% CI: –4.5, 5.4), there were no significant changes in obesity prevalence. Conclusion: The prevalence of overweight and obesity in Portuguese adolescents was around 20% between 1998 and 2014. The extent of overweight and obesity seems to have stabilized over time."
case-report	PNE381750	Successful Management of a Unique Condition of Isolated Intracranial Mucormycosis in an Immunocompetent Child Successful Management of a Unique Condition of Isolated Intracranial Mucormycosis in an Immunocompetent Child This report describes a unique case of isolated intracranial mucormycosis of a slowly progressive nature in a healthy immunocompetent child. A 4-year-old girl with a clear medical and surgical history presented with complaints of right side facial asymmetry and unsteady gait for a period of 10 months. Clinical and radiographic investigations revealed right-sided lower motor neuron facial palsy caused by an infiltrative lesion on the right cerebellopontine angle. Initial surgical debulking was performed, a biopsy was sent for histopathological examination, and a course of prophylactic antibiotic and antifungal drugs was prescribed. The pathological report confirmed the mucormycosis fungal infection, and intravenous amphotericin B was administered for 3 weeks. One month after admission, the patient left the hospital with complete recovery. Follow-ups after 4, 8 and 12 weeks revealed no sensory or motor neurological deficits. In conclusion, this is a unique case of mucormycosis with regard to the nature and location of the infection, along with the host being a healthy child. Initial surgical exploration is a very critical step in the early diagnosis and treatment of such rare conditions.
case-report	PNE436977	Progressive Multiple Cavernous Angiomas after Radiotherapy in a Pediatric Patient with Medulloblastoma: A Case Report Progressive Multiple Cavernous Angiomas after Radiotherapy in a Pediatric Patient with Medulloblastoma: A Case Report Background: We report a case of progressive multiple cavernous angiomas. Patient and Method: A 16-year-old boy presented with a 2-month history of headache and dizziness. Six years earlier, he underwent surgery for cerebellar medulloblastoma and subsequent chemoradiotherapy according to the M-051 protocol of the Korean Society of Pediatric Neuro-Oncology. Follow-up brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a tiny hemorrhage on the cerebellum 3 months after 23.4-Gy craniospinal and 32.4-Gy boost radiotherapy. Result: The multiple hemorrhagic lesions had progressively developed on the whole brain without any symptoms for 6 years. On admission, MRI revealed a 1.5-cm enlarged mass with subacute hemorrhage on the right frontal area. The mass was totally removed and diagnosed as cavernous angioma. However, 5 months later, the patient complained of a headache. MRI revealed 1.4- and 0.7-cm enlarged masses on the left frontal and right temporal areas with internal hemorrhage, respectively. The left frontal mass was totally removed, and the histopathological finding was suggestive of cavernous angioma. Conclusion: This case showed early-developed multiple hemorrhagic lesions after radiotherapy, which had been progressive and were associated with some symptomatic cavernous angiomas. Pediatric patients with brain radiotherapy should undergo radiological check-up to identify vascular lesions, especially symptomatic patients.
case-report	PNE438489	Lumbar Spinal Immature Ganglioneuroma with Conus Medullaris Invasion: Case Report Lumbar Spinal Immature Ganglioneuroma with Conus Medullaris Invasion: Case Report Ganglioneuroma (GN) is a benign rare tumor that originates from neural crest cells. It shares a common histogenic family with ganglioneuroblastoma and neuroblastoma and represents the most benign and differentiated form of the group. The most common locations of the GNs are the mediastinum and retroperitoneum. We report an extremely rare case of lumbar spinal GN with conus medullaris invasion and extradural paraspinal extension. A 10-year-old girl presented with a history of worsening lower-back pain and an intermittent tingling sensation in the left leg. Neurological examination revealed reduced sensation in the left L2-L5 dermatomes. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an intra- and extradural mass extending from the D11 to L5 vertebral body level. There was conus medullaris invasion by the tumor. After L1-L5 laminotomies, the patient underwent tumor resection. Histopathological diagnosis was immature GN. GNs occurring within the spinal column are rare and may grow to a large size. Despite the size and the common involvement of both intra- and extraspinal compartments, the prognosis is usually excellent after complete excision using microsurgical techniques.
case-report	PNE439541	Bilateral Optic Pathway Ganglioglioma: The Fifth Case in the Literature Bilateral Optic Pathway Ganglioglioma: The Fifth Case in the Literature Gangliogliomas are mixed tumors which contain both glial and neuronal elements. The optic pathway is a very rare location for gangliogliomas, with less than 23 cases reported in the literature. Bilateral involvement of the entire optic pathway was reported in only 4 cases before. Because of similar radiological appearance of other pathological entities such as gliomas and craniopharyngiomas, histopathological diagnosis is essential. We report a ganglioglioma case that involved both optic pathways. A 12-year-old patient suffering from visual deterioration for 6 months was evaluated. After a visual field test and radiological examinations, a microsurgical biopsy procedure was performed. Pathological examination revealed dysplastic/neoplastic ganglion cells and neoplastic glial cells, and the diagnosis was a World Health Organization (WHO) grade 1 ganglioglioma. The patient is scheduled for adjuvant radiotherapy with the hope of prevention of progression.
case-report	PNE443405	Atypical Teratoid Rhabdoid Tumor Diagnosis after Partial Resection of Dysembryoplastic Neuroepithelial Tumor: Case Report and Review of the Literature Atypical Teratoid Rhabdoid Tumor Diagnosis after Partial Resection of Dysembryoplastic Neuroepithelial Tumor: Case Report and Review of the Literature Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNETs) are generally considered benign, slow-growing epilepsy-associated lesions. While rare cases of malignant transformation of DNET to high-grade glial tumors have been reported, to our knowledge there have been no reports of transformation/emergence of DNET to atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT), a highly aggressive embryonal brain tumor. Here, we report the case of an 8-year-old boy who presented with an incidental finding of a small right insular lesion which grew slowly over 3 years. The patient first underwent surgery with subtotal tumor resection at age 11. Pathology was consistent with DNET. Following surgery, further tumor growth was evident, requiring fractionated radiotherapy and eventually chemotherapy, but continued tumor growth was witnessed. Three years after radiation, imaging showed dramatic further tumor growth, and the patient underwent a second debulking surgery. The pathology revealed a malignant tumor with BAF47-negative cells, suggestive of AT/RT. This report adds to our knowledge about the poorly understood behavior and natural history of DNETs and emphasizes the importance of lifelong clinical and neuroimaging follow-up of these lesions.
case-report	PNE444940	Actinomycosis Mimicking Tolosa-Hunt Syndrome in a 6-Year-Old Boy: Case Report Actinomycosis Mimicking Tolosa-Hunt Syndrome in a 6-Year-Old Boy: Case Report Tolosa-Hunt syndrome is an idiopathic inflammatory process of the cavernous sinus or orbit manifesting as painful ophthalmoplegia. In this report, we detail the case of a 6-year-old boy who presented with several weeks of unilateral headache and diplopia. He was found to have an infiltrative process involving the bilateral cavernous sinuses and pituitary gland on MRI. Given a progressing infiltrative central nervous system process on repeat MRI and the development of cerebral salt wasting, a biopsy was performed revealing actinomycosis. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of actinomycosis masquerading as Tolosa-Hunt syndrome in a child.
case-report	PNE446400	A Rare Case of Basioccipital Encephalomeningocele with Tethered Dermoid Presenting as Cranial Nerve Palsy: A Case Report A Rare Case of Basioccipital Encephalomeningocele with Tethered Dermoid Presenting as Cranial Nerve Palsy: A Case Report The basioccipital skull base is an extremely rare site for meningoencephalocele. The herniation of the brainstem or part of it through a basioccipital defect is even rarer. We report a case of rhombencephalomeningocele associated with a tethered dermoid. An extensive literature search revealed no such case report of basioccipital cranial dysraphism so far presenting with cranial nerve palsy.
case-report	PNE452802	Intraoperative Tumoral Bleeding of Hypervascular Medulloblastoma after Ventricular Drainage: A Case Report Intraoperative Tumoral Bleeding of Hypervascular Medulloblastoma after Ventricular Drainage: A Case Report We report a rare case of intraoperative tumoral bleeding of a hypervascular medulloblastoma. A 12-year-old girl presented with dizziness and nausea. Brain magnetic resonance (MR) images revealed an approximately 4.2-cm enhanced mass on the cerebellar vermis associated with mild perilesional edema and increased cerebral blood volume. Angiography showed tumoral staining and developed occipital and circular dural sinuses in the venous phase. A suboccipital craniotomy was performed. To relieve the intracranial pressure, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was drained via a lateral ventricular catheter in the occipital horn. During the opening of the dura, the brain swelling had progressed, and brain computed tomography revealed an intratumoral hemorrhage with brainstem compression. The patient was in a stuporous mental state. A reoperation was performed, and the mass was totally removed. The pathologic findings revealed a medulloblastoma with abnormal enlarged arterial vascular structures. Postoperatively, the patient recovered to an alert mental state. She underwent chemotherapy and radiotherapy. There was no recurrence after 1 year. Pre-resectional CSF drainage should not be routinely performed in posterior fossa tumors, especially with increased cerebral blood volume on MR perfusion images. Complete removal should be performed quickly while CSF drainage should be performed slowly. An intratumoral hemorrhage should be considered in posterior fossa tumors when severe brain swelling suddenly develops after CSF drainage.
case-report	PNE455920	"Midbrain Gliofibroma Presenting in Adulthood following “Cure” of a Childhood Intraventricular Pilocytic Astrocytoma Midbrain Gliofibroma Presenting in Adulthood following “Cure” of a Childhood Intraventricular Pilocytic Astrocytoma Introduction: Gliofibromas are rare biphasic tumours with a good prognosis that usually occur in childhood. Rare adult spinal cases have been treated with radiotherapy. This report describes the case of a gliofibroma occurring in a young adult 10 years after treatment for a childhood pilocytic astrocytoma. Case: A 14-year-old female underwent complete resection of a right lateral ventricle pilocytic astrocytoma confirmed on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). At the age of 17, the tumour recurred, and a second complete resection was performed. Due to the early recurrence, she was placed on long-term MRI surveillance. At the age of 23, an enhancing left midbrain tumour was identified that was suspected to be a recurrent pilocytic astrocytoma. Following surgical resection the histopathology revealed a gliofibroma. Due to the growth of further tumour nodules she was treated with fractionated radiotherapy. There is no disease recurrence after 36 months of follow-up, and the patient remains well. Discussion: Gliofibromas are tumours which usually occur in childhood; this case report identifies a rare occurrence in an adult. The childhood intraventricular pilocytic astrocytoma was in an anatomically distinct location to the midbrain gliofibroma. Radiotherapy can control these tumours, and follow-up is required to understand the long-term outcome and prognosis."
case-report	PNE455924	Skull Base and Cervical Spine Involvement in Jansen Syndrome: Case Report Skull Base and Cervical Spine Involvement in Jansen Syndrome: Case Report Introduction: Metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, Jansen type (JMD), is a rare form of endochondral ossification resulting in short limbs and dwarfism. Case Report: A child presented with JMD and was found to have involvement of the cervical spine. Conservative treatment was given to the patient who at the long-term follow-up continues to have no neurological findings or cervical spine instability. Conclusions: To our knowledge, this case represents the first report of involvement of the superior cervical spine in a patient with JMD. Clinicians should be aware of this potential albeit rare finding.
case-report	PNE455926	"Unusual Occurrence of Multifocal Desmoplastic Infantile Astrocytoma: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Unusual Occurrence of Multifocal Desmoplastic Infantile Astrocytoma: A Case Report and Review of the Literature Desmoplastic infantile gliomas are rare, benign tumors of the early infancy period. Two histological subtypes - desmoplastic infantile astrocytoma (DIA) and desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma - have been described. The characteristic features of DIAs are lobar location, glial histology, and excellent prognosis after complete surgical excision. DIAs usually present as solitary, cortical-surfacing, solid-cystic neoplasms; however, atypical, aggressive, and multifocal variants of DIA have been reported in the literature. These rare DIAs presenting with multiple lesions pose a diagnostic as well as a therapeutic dilemma. We report an unusual case of an 8-month-old female infant diagnosed with multifocal (cranial and spinal) DIA and obstructive hydrocephalus and discuss the radiological and histological features of this rare variant of DIA. The patient underwent ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement to relieve the hydrocephalus, excisional biopsy from a surfacing lesion in the right frontal lobe, and multiple cycles of chemotherapy; however, the lesions continued to progress, and the patient is likely to have an unfavorable outcome."
case-report	PNE459627	Moyamoya in a Patient with Smith-Magenis Syndrome Moyamoya in a Patient with Smith-Magenis Syndrome Occurrence of moyamoya syndrome in a patient with Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) has previously been reported once in a 10-year-old Asian female. We report a second case of moyamoya in a patient with SMS, in a now 25-year-old Asian female diagnosed with both conditions as a child. In addition to describing her medical and surgical history, we provide a detailed report of her omental transposition, in which the omental circulation was anastomosed to the superior thyroid artery and external jugular vein. To our knowledge, this is the first report of omental transposition for moyamoya in which omental vessels are anastomosed to vessels in the neck, as well as the second report of moyamoya in a patient with SMS.
case-report	PNE481514	A Case of a 4-Year-Old Female with a Primary Spinal Malignancy Presenting with Froin's Syndrome A Case of a 4-Year-Old Female with a Primary Spinal Malignancy Presenting with Froin's Syndrome We report the case of a 4-year-old female with a primary extradural intramedullary atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) leading to a middle cerebral artery (MCA) infarct and Froin's syndrome. She presented with a 6-pound weight loss over the previous week, as well as a decreased urinary output and an altered mental status. She underwent a brain MRI that revealed a left MCA infarct, mild ventriculomegaly, and bilateral internal carotid artery, M1, and A1 stenosis. An external ventricular drain (EVD) was placed due to increased intracranial pressure. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was analyzed via lumbar puncture that revealed extremely elevated protein. However, CSF sampled from the EVD was completely normal, a phenomenon called Froin's syndrome. The following day, she developed a right MCA infarct. Her grim prognosis was discussed with her family and care was eventually withdrawn. The patient underwent an autopsy which confirmed a spinal AT/RT. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of stroke and Froin's syndrome as the initial manifestations of a primary spinal AT/RT with a late onset of spinal cord compression due to tumor obstruction.
case-report	PNE488458	"Acute Obstructive Hydrocephalus due to a Giant Posterior Cerebral Artery Aneurysm in a Pediatric Patient Acute Obstructive Hydrocephalus due to a Giant Posterior Cerebral Artery Aneurysm in a Pediatric Patient Introduction: Intracranial aneurysms are very rare in children. Although subarachnoidal hemorrhage (SAH) is by far the most common presentation of aneurysms in the majority of the pediatric case series, it is not rare for an unruptured aneurysm to present with a mass effect. Acute hydrocephalus is a common finding following aneurysmal SAH. However, this malady may develop even in the absence of SAH but secondary to direct obstruction by a giant aneurysm. This situation is extremely rare in children, with only a few known case reports in the literature. Case Report: We report the case of a 10-year-old girl who presented with signs and symptoms of acute hydrocephalus; further radiological evaluation revealed obstructive hydrocephalus and a giant posterior cerebral artery aneurysm. Following endovascular treatment of the aneurysm, hydrocephalus was completely resolved, and the patient was symptom free. Conclusion: Although they are very rare, giant intracranial aneurysms must be kept in mind during the differential diagnosis of pediatric acute hydrocephalus cases. Hydrocephalus may resolve spontaneously after the successful treatment of these aneurysms."
case-report	PNE491639	Choroid Plexus Papilloma of Bilateral Lateral Ventricle in an Infant Conceived by in vitro Fertilization Choroid Plexus Papilloma of Bilateral Lateral Ventricle in an Infant Conceived by in vitro Fertilization Choroid plexus papilloma (CPP) is a rare benign tumor of the central nervous system. Bilateral lateral ventricle CPP is extremely uncommon. In this case report, we described a case of bilateral lateral ventricle CPP in a 4-month-old female patient conceived by in vitro fertilization (IVF). Neurological examination and imaging were performed. In neurological examination, meningeal irritation signs and sunset phenomenon were positive. Brain computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) displayed masses located in the trigone of the bilateral lateral ventricle with hydrocephalus. Contrast-enhanced MRI showed intense homogeneous enhancement. The diagnoses of bilateral lateral ventricle CPP related to hydrocephalus and extravasation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were made. Repeated surgical procedures via parietotemporal craniotomy were performed, and the diagnosis was confirmed by histopathology examination. The patient presented with delayed development during a follow-up period of 1 year. In conclusion, imaging is an effective approach of investigation. CPP could be highly suspected according to the features of hydrocephalus, lobulated appearance, and homogeneous enhancement on imaging. Total surgical removal is a valid curative method for CPP.
review-article	PSP447359	"Are Mental Disorders Brain Diseases, and What Does This Mean? A Clinical-Neuropsychological Perspective Are Mental Disorders Brain Diseases, and What Does This Mean? A Clinical-Neuropsychological Perspective Neuroscientific research has substantially increased our knowledge about mental disorders in recent years. Along with these benefits, radical postulates have been articulated according to which understanding and treatment of mental disorders should generally be based on biological terms, such as neurons/brain areas, transmitters, genes etc. Proponents of such a ‘biological psychiatry' claim that mental disorders are analogous to neurological disorders and refer to neurology and neuropsychology to corroborate their claims. The present article argues that, from a clinical-neuropsychological perspective, ‘biological psychiatry' is based on a mechanistic, ‘cerebrocentric' framework of brain (dys-)function which has its roots in experimental neuroscience but runs up against narrow limits in clinical neurology and neuropsychology. In fact, understanding and treating neurological disorders generally demands a systems perspective including brain, organism and environment as intrinsically entangled. In this way, ‘biological' characterizes a ‘holistic', nonreductionist level of explanation, according to which the significance of particular mechanisms can only be estimated in the context of the organism (or person). This is evident in the common observation that local brain damage does not just lead to an isolated loss of function, but to multiple attempts of reorganization and readaptation; it initiates new developments. Furthermore, treating brain disorders necessarily includes aspects of individuality and subjectivity, a conclusion that contradicts the purely ‘objectivist', third-person stance put forward by some proponents of biological psychiatry. In sum, understanding and treating brain damage sequelae in the clinical neurosciences demands a biopsychosocial perspective, for both conceptual and historical reasons. The same may hold for psychiatry when adopting a brain-based view on mental disorders. In such a perspective, biological psychiatry seems an interesting project but falls short of its original claims."
review-article	RES449037	Personalized Medicine for Chronic Respiratory Infectious Diseases: Tuberculosis, Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Diseases, and Chronic Pulmonary Aspergillosis Personalized Medicine for Chronic Respiratory Infectious Diseases: Tuberculosis, Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary Diseases, and Chronic Pulmonary Aspergillosis Chronic respiratory infectious diseases are causing high rates of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Tuberculosis, a major cause of chronic pulmonary infection, is currently responsible for approximately 1.5 million deaths per year. Although important advances in the fight against tuberculosis have been made, the progress towards eradication of this disease is being challenged by the dramatic increase in multidrug-resistant bacilli. Nontuberculous mycobacteria causing pulmonary disease and chronic pulmonary aspergillosis are emerging infectious diseases. In contrast to other infectious diseases, chronic respiratory infections share the trait of having highly variable treatment outcomes despite longstanding antimicrobial therapy. Recent scientific progress indicates that medicine is presently at a transition stage from programmatic to personalized management. We explain current state-of-the-art management concepts of chronic pulmonary infectious diseases as well as the underlying methods for therapeutic decisions and their implications for personalized medicine. Furthermore, we describe promising biomarkers and techniques with the potential to serve future individual treatment concepts in this field of difficult-to-treat patients. These include candidate markers to improve individual risk assessment for disease development, the design of tailor-made drug therapy regimens, and individualized biomarker-guided therapy duration to achieve relapse-free cure. In addition, the use of therapeutic drug monitoring to reach optimal drug dosing with the smallest rate of adverse events as well as candidate agents for future host-directed therapies are described. Taken together, personalized medicine will provide opportunities to substantially improve the management and treatment outcome of difficult-to-treat patients with chronic respiratory infections.
systematic-review	SAD485632	"The Impact of Onychomycosis on Quality of Life: A Systematic Review of the Available Literature The Impact of Onychomycosis on Quality of Life: A Systematic Review of the Available Literature Purpose: Onychomycosis is a nail disorder that is increasing in prevalence worldwide. The psychological and social limitations caused by onychomycosis can potentially undermine the work and social lives of those experiencing these negative effects. This review aimed to evaluate the randomized controlled trials (RCTs) available in the current literature on the impact onychomycosis has on quality of life (QoL). Methods: A systematic review was performed using the databases PubMed, PsycINFO, Scopus, ClinicalTrials.gov, and Cochrane Library on July 18, 2017. Only RCTs with clinical effects described in English were included for review. Results: Ten RCTs reported QoL outcomes for patients suffering from onychomycosis. Treatment satisfaction was statistically significant from baseline to end of treatment in 100.0% (4/4) measures which reported on satisfaction with treatment; mental health was also significant in 100.0% (3/3), symptoms index rating in 100.0% (2/2), symptom frequency in 75.0% (3/4), overall problems in 75.0% (3/4), functional activities in 75.0% (6/8), appearance problems in 66.7% (2/3), symptom distress in 57.1% (4/7), and stigma in 40.0% (2/5). The OnyCOE-tTM and the NailQoL were the most used common outcome measures to describe QoL. Conclusion: The study sanctions that onychomycosis physically and psychologically distresses patients’ lives. Further research should include validated outcome measures to more effectively treat onychomycosis."
research-article	SFN454893	Implementation of a New UPMC Gamma Knife Radiosurgery Quality Assurance Registry Implementation of a New UPMC Gamma Knife Radiosurgery Quality Assurance Registry Object: In this report, we discuss the development of a new, comprehensive, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act-compliant electronic quality assurance (QA) registry for Gamma Knife (GK) radiosurgery patients. This registry can be used to query outcomes, link with current hospital electronic medical records, and share data with future corporate or national professional society registries under development. Methods: A clinical task force comprising physicians and regulatory, legal, and information technology (IT) experts was created to define the nomenclature, regulatory requirements, hosting site, and required capabilities of the proposed system. A team of physicians and IT experts defined the clinical parameters and designed the query functions for the registry. Results: The UPMC GK Registry was established as a QA registry exempt from Institutional Review Board oversight. In order to facilitate subsequent query functions (analytics), data entry was created for 3 main categories: brain tumors, vascular malformations, and functional disorders. A Microsoft SQL-based database infrastructure was employed. Conclusions: We developed a new UPMC GK QA registry and successfully migrated our previous data on 13,000 patients into the registry. This simplified and user-friendly registry offers clinicians the opportunity to participate in national registries and to contribute to multicenter evidence-based outcome analyses.
case-report	SFN489221	"A Case of Symptomatic Granular Cell Tumor of the Pituitary Treated with Stereotactic Radiosurgery A Case of Symptomatic Granular Cell Tumor of the Pituitary Treated with Stereotactic Radiosurgery Background: Granular cell tumors (GCT) of the pituitary are rare. Surgery is considered the primary management option. However, complete resection is often difficult, and surgery is associated with high rates of postoperative complications. Aims: To report a unique case of pituitary GCT treated with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). Case Description: We report a case of a 40-year-old female with endocrine dysfunction who underwent stereotactic biopsy and then SRS for the management of a suprasellar granular cell tumor. Over the ensuing 10 years, tumor regression was observed. Thirteen years after SRS, the patient remained asymptomatic; however, follow-up MRI demonstrated tumor progression. Fifteen years after SRS, the patient required endoscopic endonasal surgery after developing a new optic neuropathy. Her images demonstrated further tumor growth beyond the targeted area. Conclusion: SRS resulted in long-term tumor control without additional endocrine dysfunction, but the onset of new optic neuropathy associated with delayed tumor growth prompted surgical decompression."
review-article	TMH445215	A Player and Coordinator: The Versatile Roles of Eosinophils in the Immune System A Player and Coordinator: The Versatile Roles of Eosinophils in the Immune System Eosinophils have traditionally been associated with allergic diseases and parasite infection. Research advances in the recent decades have brought evolutionary changes in our understanding of eosinophil biology and its roles in immunity. It is currently recognized that eosinophils play multiple roles in both innate and adaptive immunity. As effector cells in innate immunity, eosinophils exert a pro-inflammatory and destructive role in the Th2 immune response associated with allergic inflammation or parasite infection. Eosinophils can also be recruited by danger signals released by pathogen infections or tissue injury, inducing host defense against parasitic, fungal, bacterial or viral infection or promoting tissue repair and remodeling. Eosinophils also serve as nonprofessional antigen-presenting cells in response to allergen challenge or helminth infection, and, meanwhile, are known to function as a versatile coordinator that actively regulates or interacts with various immune cells including T lymphocytes and dendritic cells. More roles of eosinophils implicated in immunity have been proposed including in immune homeostasis, allograft rejection, and anti-tumor immunity. Eosinophil interactions with structural cells are also implicated in the mechanisms in allergic inflammation and in Helicobacter pylori gastritis. These multifaceted roles of eosinophils as both players and coordinators in immune system are discussed in this review.
research-article	TMH449207	HCV RNA Testing of Plasma Samples from Cornea Donors: Suitability of Plasma Samples Stored at 4 °C for up to 8 Days HCV RNA Testing of Plasma Samples from Cornea Donors: Suitability of Plasma Samples Stored at 4 °C for up to 8 Days Background: The HCV RNA testing of potential cornea donors frequently relies on blood samples stored pre mortem. The recommended storage time of maximum 72 h frequently excludes a significant fraction of donors. Methods: The influence of storage time of EDTA plasma samples at 4 °C on the viral load measured with the Roche HCV Quantitative Test vs. 2.0 was evaluated for 43 samples from HCV-positive individuals. Results: The mean reduction of the viral load after 4 °C storage for 6-8 days was 0.46 log10 IU/ml (range +0.17 to -1.66 log10 IU/ml). After 1-3 days a mean loss of 0.19 log10 IU/ml (range +0.30 to -1.41 log10 IU/ml) and after 3-5 days of 0.32 log10 IU/ml (range +0.36 to -1.81 log10 IU/ml) was observed. In 23.3% of samples, a viral load reduction ≥ 1 log10 IU/ml (1.0-1.81 log10 IU/ml) was found after prolonged storage (5-8 days). In none of the samples did the HCV load fall below the detection limit. Conclusion: Plasma storage for up to 8 days can quantitatively reduce the HCV RNA load, yet has no influence on the reliability of a qualitative HCV RNA detection by this ultrasensitive test to determine the HCV status of serologically negative cornea donors.
research-article	TMH471887	"Using Blood Donor-Derived ABO and RhD Blood Groups Helps to Detect Wrong Blood in Tube Errors in Recipients Using Blood Donor-Derived ABO and RhD Blood Groups Helps to Detect Wrong Blood in Tube Errors in Recipients Background: Comparing the ABO and RhD group of a recipient's current pre-transfusion sample against their historical group is an important means of detecting wrong blood in tube (WBIT) errors. This study investigated the utility of using the donor ABO and RhD group as the historical check for recipients. Methods: A single database stores serological information on blood donors, pregnant women, and patients throughout southern Denmark. A donor ABO and RhD group can be the historical blood group should that donor later require a transfusion. This database was searched to determine how often the ABO and RhD group on a recipient's current pre-transfusion sample was discrepant with their historical donor-derived blood group. Results: During about 21 years, ABO and RhD groupings were performed on 76,455 blood donors and on 424,697 patients. There were 13,630/424,697 (3.2%) patients who had their donor-derived ABO and RhD group used as the historical comparison with the current sample; 6/13,630 (0.04%) of the current pre-transfusion samples on these patients were discrepant with the donor-derived historical group because of WBIT errors. Seven other discrepancies with the donor-derived blood group were also found. Conclusion: Accessing the donor-derived ABO and RhD group can be an important safeguard against WBIT-mediated mistransfusions."
research-article	TMH475845	"Reactive Oxygen Species Generated by CD45- Cells Distinct from Leukocyte Population in Platelet Concentrates Is Correlated with the Expression and Release of Platelet Activation Markers during Storage Reactive Oxygen Species Generated by CD45- Cells Distinct from Leukocyte Population in Platelet Concentrates Is Correlated with the Expression and Release of Platelet Activation Markers during Storage Background: Platelet stimulation with agonists is accompanied by the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) which promotes further platelet activation and aggregation. Considering different cell populations in platelet concentrates (PCs), this study investigates the correlation of ROS generation with the expression and release of platelet activation markers during storage. Methods: Samples obtained from 6 PCs were subjected to flow cytometry and ELISA to evaluate the expression and shedding of platelet P-selectin or CD40L during storage. Intracellular ROS were detected in either CD45- or CD45+ population by flow cytometry using dihydrorhodamine 123, while ROS production was analyzed in both P-selectin+ or P-selectin- and CD40L+ or CD40L- populations. To further evaluate the correlation between ROS generation and release function, TRAP-stimulated platelets were also subjected to flow cytometry analysis. Results: ROS detected in the CD45- population (leukocyte-free platelets) was significantly increased by fMLP and PMA. P-selectin- or CD40L- platelet did not show significant amount of ROS. Total ROS generation was significantly increased during platelet storage (day 0 vs. day 5; p = 0.0002) while this increasing pattern was directly correlated with the expression of P-selectin (r = 0.72; p = 0.0001) and CD40L (r = 0.69; p = 0.0001). ROS generations were significantly correlated with ectodomain shedding of these pro-inflammatory molecules. Conclusion: Our data confirmed increasing levels of intracellular ROS generation in both platelets (CD45-) and platelet-leukocyte aggregates (CD45+) during PC storage. The amount of detected ROS is directly correlated with platelet activation and release in each population while platelet-leukocyte aggregates generate higher levels of ROS than single platelets."
review-article	TMH477262	Current Developments in Mobilization of Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cells and Their Interaction with Niches in Bone Marrow Current Developments in Mobilization of Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cells and Their Interaction with Niches in Bone Marrow The clinical application of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) has evolved from a highly experimental stage in the 1980s to a currently clinically established treatment for more than 20,000 patients annually who suffer from hematological malignancies and other severe diseases. Studies in numerous murine models have demonstrated that HSPCs reside in distinct niches within the bone marrow environment. Whereas transplanted HSPCs travel through the bloodstream and home to sites of hematopoiesis, HSPCs can be mobilized from these niches into the blood either physiologically or induced by pharmaceutical drugs. Firstly, this review aims to give a synopsis of milestones defining niches and mobilization pathways for HSPCs, including the identification of several cell types involved such as osteoblasts, adventitial reticular cells, endothelial cells, monocytic cells, and granulocytic cells. The main factors that anchor HSPCs in the niche, and/or induce their quiescence are vascular cell adhesion molecule(VCAM)-1, CD44, hematopoietic growth factors, e.g. stem cell factor (SCF) and FLT3 Ligand, chemokines including CXCL12, growth-regulated protein beta and IL-8, proteases, peptides, and other chemical transmitters such as nucleotides. In the second part of the review, we revise the current understanding of HSPC mobilization. Here, we discuss which mechanisms found to be active in HSPC mobilization correspond to the mechanisms relevant for HSPC interaction with niche cells, but also deal with other mediators and signals that target individual cell types and receptors to mobilize HSPCs. A multitude of questions remain to be addressed for a better understanding of HSPC biology and its implications for therapy, including more comprehensive concepts for regulatory circuits such as calcium homeostasis and parathormone, metabolic regulation such as by leptin, the significance of autonomic nervous system, the consequences of alteration of niches in aged patients, or the identification of more easily accessible markers to better predict the efficiency of HSPC mobilization.
case-report	UIN443702	Late Rupture of Lumbar Artery as an Unusual Complication after Renal Biopsy - Case Report Late Rupture of Lumbar Artery as an Unusual Complication after Renal Biopsy - Case Report The most serious complication of renal biopsy is vascular damage with subsequent haemorrhage. To our knowledge, we present a first ever case of lumbar artery (LA) rupture accompanied by massive retroperitoneal bleeding, which developed after a significant amount of time following the biopsy itself. In a 63-year-old Caucasian female patient, a percutaneous left kidney biopsy was performed under continuous ultrasound guidance. On the fourteenth day after the procedure, she was examined for a sudden onset of left lumbar region pain. Computed tomography angiography showed a large retroperitoneal hematoma with active bleeding from the fourth left LA. Successful endovascular superselective embolization was performed immediately. The predisposing factor for the late haemorrhage could have been anticoagulation therapy, renal insufficiency and older age. Our case report highlights the need for caution, especially when performing kidney biopsy in a group of high-risk patients, particularly if they are indicated for subsequent anticoagulant therapy.
research-article	UIN478027	"Prospective, Controlled Study of Invasiveness and Post-Aggression Metabolism in Patients Undergoing Robotic-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy Prospective, Controlled Study of Invasiveness and Post-Aggression Metabolism in Patients Undergoing Robotic-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy Objectives: To evaluate in a prospective, controlled, nonrandomized study the surgical stress and acute-phase systemic response in robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) compared to open radical retro-pubic prostatectomy (ORRP) by measuring humoral mediators. Methods: Forty consecutive patients undergoing either RALP or ORRP were prospectively included to assess the extent of systemic response. Blood samples were collected before surgery (T1), at the time of prostatectomy (T2), at the time of wound closure (T3), and 12 h (T4), 24 h (T5), and 48 h (T6) after surgery, and assayed for interleukins (IL-6 and IL-10), C-reactive protein (CRP), and hemoglobin. A 2-sided p &lt; 0.05 was considered to indicate significance. Results: Baseline levels of IL-6, IL-10, and CRP were comparable in both arms of the study. IL-6 and IL-10 increased in both groups during surgery and reached maximum levels at 12 and 24 h after surgery. The RALP and RRP groups differed significantly at T2 (p = 0.009), T3 (p = 0.046), T5 (p = 0.05) and T6 (p = 0.0007) for IL-6, and at T3 (p = 0.05) and T4 (p = 0.05) for IL-10. CRP levels differed significantly at 48 h postoperative (p = 0.0053). The maximum levels of all 3 mediators in the RALP group were significantly lower than those in the open surgery group. Patients in the RALP group experienced less pain from day 2 to 4 according to the Visual Analog Scale (p &lt; 0.05). Conclusions: The study suggests that IL-6 and IL-10 are useful objective markers for surgical stress and that tissue trauma and activation of post-aggression metabolism seem to be less in RALP compared to ORRP."
case-report	UIN485256	Bladder Fetal Rhabdomyoma Intermediate Type Bladder Fetal Rhabdomyoma Intermediate Type Introduction: Rhabdomyomas are benign tumors of striated muscle, the bladder localization is very rare. Clinical Case: We present an 87-year-old male consulting for gross hematuria. Cystoscopy was done with evidence of bulged bladder mucosa in right side wall and dome. Post-transurethral resection of the bladder (TURB) pathological anatomy was negative for malignancy. As extension study abdominopelvic computed tomography was performed identifying a bladder thickening of right posterior sidewall and an increased density of the adjacent fat. Second TURB was performed and a fetal bladder rhabdomyoma intermediate type was obtained. We performed another biopsy to confirm this rare pathology, with the same diagnosis. Subsequently, the patient continues with hematuria deciding on hemostatic radiotherapy (not candidate for cystectomy or arterial embolization). Currently, the patient is asymptomatic. Discussion: Bladder rhabdomyomas are rare tumors, and, in fact, there have been only 5 papers published. Some cases are only isolation cited in the bladder mesenchymal tumors, and other polemic cases in which clinical and macroscopic characteristics remembered a rhabdomyosarcoma. The importance of this publication case is the macro- and microscopic images that can corroborate the final diagnosis, helping us to differentiate between rhabdomyoma, rhabdomyofibroma, or the malignant rhabdomyosarcoma, and shows the treatment possibilities of these tumors.
case-report	UIN495143	Solitary Bone Metastasis as the First Presentation of Germ Cell Testicular Cancer Treated with Internal Hemipelvectomy: A Case Report Solitary Bone Metastasis as the First Presentation of Germ Cell Testicular Cancer Treated with Internal Hemipelvectomy: A Case Report Solitary bone metastasis from testicular tumor is rare. In literature, only few cases of isolated bone metastasis at first presentation have been reported, and none of them have been treated with extended surgery of the pelvic bone. Case Presentation: We report the case of a 33-year-old man with an iliac bone osteolytic metastasis as the first presentation of a non-seminomatous germ-cell testis tumor (NSGCT), treated with post-chemotherapy en bloc resection of residual tumor in the left iliac bone (Type I + II internal hemipelvectomy). After a 72-month follow-up, the patient has been asymptomatic, with no signs of local recurrence or metastasis and negative serum tumor markers. Conclusions: In selected cases, testicular NSGCT with iliac bone metastasis and normal or normalizing tumor markers can be treated, in association with chemotherapy, by extended surgery, including bone resection, to obtain gain in survival and maintain limb function.
review-article	VIS446492	Physical Activity and Nutrition in Primary and Tertiary Prevention of Colorectal Cancer Physical Activity and Nutrition in Primary and Tertiary Prevention of Colorectal Cancer Background: Lifestyle factors play a pivotal role in the primary and tertiary prevention of colorectal cancer. The purpose of this review article is to summarize data concerning the effect of the lifestyle factors physical activity (PA) and nutrition in primary and, more importantly, tertiary prevention of colorectal cancer (CRC). Methods: Focusing on the influence of lifestyle factors on prognosis und quality of life (QOL), a comprehensive literature search of clinical studies published mainly in the years 2000 until 2015 was performed and the current knowledge based on these clinical studies reviewed. Results: Besides avoiding risk factors (such as smoking and overindulgence in alcohol), healthy weight, regular and moderate PA as well as a diet which contains fruit, vegetables, poultry, and fish (so-called ‘Mediterranean' diet) may reduce the risk of the disease significantly. Patients already diagnosed with CRC can also actively improve the prognosis of CRC and QOL by changing their lifestyle. Patients commencing moderate exercise and modifying their eating habits in terms of a ‘Mediterranean' diet can reduce cancer-specific and overall mortality by up to 40% and significantly increase their quality of life already during chemotherapy. Therefore, moderate physical exercise, calorie restriction, and a Mediterranean dietary pattern for patients with CRC should be recommended by physicians treating these patients. In fact, the World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR/WCRF) systematic literature review from 2007 shows that the lifestyle changes recommended after diagnosis are the same for primary prevention of this disease. Conclusion: Lifestyle changes such as moderate PA and a Mediterranean diet significantly improve the QOL as well as the prognosis of patients suffering from colorectal disease. However, the effect of lifestyle changes is mostly based on observational studies, while only few studies are prospective and none are randomized. Therefore, these observational studies warrant controlled randomized trials to prove the effectiveness of lifestyle interventions on QOL and cancer recurrence.
case-report	VIS485263	Inguinal Lymph Node Metastasis of a Primary Serous Papillary Carcinoma of the Peritoneum One Year after CRS and HIPEC Inguinal Lymph Node Metastasis of a Primary Serous Papillary Carcinoma of the Peritoneum One Year after CRS and HIPEC Background: Primary peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma is a rare malignant epithelial tumor which was first described in 1959. Peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma arises from the peritoneal epithelium and originates from a single or multicentric focus of the peritoneum involving the peritoneum of the abdomen and pelvis. The involvement of retroperitoneal lymph nodes occurs in 64% of the patients diagnosed with this malignancy. So far, there is no report about inguinal lymph node metastasis in this disease. Case Report: We present a rare case of a 63-year-old female patient who developed singular inguinal lymph node metastasis 1 year after cytoreductive surgery and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy due to peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma. The lymph node metastasis was found by computed tomography (CT) scan and was resected and histologically confirmed. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 1. The last CT scan 24 months after initial cytoreduction and 12 months after lymph node resection showed no further tumor recurrence. Conclusion: This case report should raise the awareness of potentially unexpected presentation of extraperitoneal metastasis and highlights the importance of patient follow-up including clinical examination and CT scans of thorax/abdomen/pelvis following a systematic schedule.
