Class	ID	Text
	AJN13382	Sympathetic Activity and Blood Pressure Pattern in Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease Hypertensives Sympathetic Activity and Blood Pressure Pattern in Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease Hypertensives To study the potential role of sympathetic activity in the pathogenesis of arterial hypertension associated with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and to analyze its relationship with 24-hour blood pressure pattern, plasma catecholamines and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring were evaluated in 30 ADPKD hypertensive patients (of which 17 without and 13 with renal failure) and in 50 essential hypertensives. The groups were matched for sex, body mass index, known duration of hypertension, and clinic blood pressure. Plasma catecholamines, determined in resting position, were higher in ADPKD patients without renal failure than in essential hypertensives. Nighttime diastolic blood pressure was higher and the percentage day-night difference in mean blood pressure was lower in hypertensives with ADPKD compared to patients with essential hypertension. Blood pressure was significantly correlated with plasma noradrenaline in ADPKD patients, independently of renal function. No significant differences were observed between ADPKD patients with and without renal failure, with respect to plasma catecholamines, 24-hour daytime and nighttime ambulatory blood pressures and the percentage day-night difference in mean blood pressure.
	AJN13383	Study of Effect of Optimization of Dialysis and Protein Intake on Neuromuscular Function in Patients under Maintenance Hemodialysis Treatment Study of Effect of Optimization of Dialysis and Protein Intake on Neuromuscular Function in Patients under Maintenance Hemodialysis Treatment This study was carried out on 22 patients on maintenance hemodialysis. Among them, 20 patients were males and 2 were females, their age ranged from 12 to 50 years. Initially, the patients were assessed clinically and by laboratory investigations and their dialysis was assessed by studying their urea kinetic modeling following the nomographic approach for calculating their Kt/V values. Their nutrition was assessed by measuring skin folds, midarm circumference, laboratory parameters and by calculating the normalized protein catabolic rate (nPCR). Also their neuromuscular functions were assessed by clinical examination and neurophysiologic study. Dialysis dose was readjusted to achieve a target Kt/V value of 1.3 for patients on 3 times weekly dialysis and 1.6 for patients on twice weekly dialysis. Also, their nutrition was reviewed to achieve nPCR 1.2 g/kg/day and caloric intake 30–40 kcal/kg/day through diet manipulation and support. The patients were assessed finally after 3 months on targeted dialysis and nutrition by thorough clinical, laboratory and neuromuscular assessment.Analysis of neurophysiologic data showed significant improvement in electromyography. Furthermore, fatigue test showed significant (p = 0.002) decreases in muscle fatigue after optimization of dialysis dose and patients’ nutrition.From this study, we may conclude that in dialysis patients, even when asymptomatic and clinically stable, neurologic deficits do exist and using area kinetic modeling to improve dialysis and patients’ nutrition is valuable in improving their neuromuscular functions.
	AJN13384	"Effect of Intravenous Calcitriol on Cardiac Systolic and Diastolic Function in Patients on Hemodialysis Effect of Intravenous Calcitriol on Cardiac Systolic and Diastolic Function in Patients on Hemodialysis The systolic and diastolic function of the heart of hemodialysis (HD) patients and the effect of intravenous vitamin D therapy on cardiac function was studied by Doppler and digitized M-mode echocardiography in 10 HD patients before and after 3–4.5 months of calcitriol therapy. Calcitriol was administered intravenously 1–3 times a week at a dose of 1–2 µg after the dialysis sessions. Ten age- and sex-matched healthy controls were also examined echocardiographically. Before calcitriol therapy cardiac wall thicknesses (interventricular septum, posterior wall) and left ventricle (LV) dimensions (end diastolic, end systolic) were greater, and LV diastolic (peak late diastolic velocity, peak early diastolic velocity/peak late diastolic velocity ratio, isovolumic relaxation time) and systolic (fractional shortening) function was impaired in HD patients as compared to controls. The LV posterior wall thickness was related to plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH; r = 0.70, p = 0.01) in the patients. Calcitriol therapy raised serum ionized Ca from 1.23±0.04 to 1.33 ± 0.04 mmol/l and reduced PTH from 41.1±10.7 to 34.2±11.7 pmol/l (29±11%). Calcitriol therapy did not cause any significant changes in cardiac function in the whole patient group. However, in a subgroup of 5 patients with severe but controllable hyperparathyroidism (PTH &gt;3 times upper normal margin) the LV dimensions and systolic function improved (LV end systolic dimension from 39.0 ± 4.0 to 31.3 ± 2.9 mm, p = 0.03; LV end diastolic dimension from 57.7 ± 3.1 to 53.4 ± 3.0 mm, p = 0.06; fractional shortening from 33 ± 4 to 42 ± 3%, p = 0.03). The diastolic indices improved also, but not significantly. In conclusion, left ventricle hypertrophy and systolic and diastolic dysfunction was observed in HD patients. Intravenous calcitriol therapy improved cardiac function in patients with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism."
	AJN13385	"Plasma Concentration of Brain Natriuretic Peptide as an Indicator of Cardiac Ventricular Function in Patients on Hemodialysis Plasma Concentration of Brain Natriuretic Peptide as an Indicator of Cardiac Ventricular Function in Patients on Hemodialysis The plasma concentration of human brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) was measured by immunoradiometric assay in patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD) to assess the possible relationship between the plasma levels of this peptide and cardiac ventricular function, as judged by M-mode echocardiography. The plasma BNP levels in the pre-HD state were significantly higher (688.5 ± 154.5 pg/ml) than those of healthy subjects (&lt;40 pg/ml). In addition, the plasma BNP levels were slightly decreased during HD (post-HD, 617.3 ± 157.1 pg/ml). There was no correlation between the plasma levels of BNP and body weight changes during HD. The mean plasma BNP level was significantly higher in the group of patients with a low left ventricular ejection fraction (EF &lt; 60%) than in the group with a normal EF. In the patients as a whole, there was an inverse correlation between plasma BNP levels and EF. Moreover, a positive correlation was found between plasma BNP levels and left ventricular mass index (r = 0.57, p &lt; 0.05). These results suggest that plasma BNP levels increase in response to chronic stimulation in accordance with increased cardiac load, and that they may be a possible indicator of reduced ventricular function in HD patients."
	AJN13386	"Effect of L-Carnitine Supplementation on Lipid Parameters in Hemodialysis Patients Effect of L-Carnitine Supplementation on Lipid Parameters in Hemodialysis Patients It has been reported that cumulative carnitine losses through dialysis membranes may worsen hyperlipidemia during long-term hemodialysis. However, carnitine supplementation has not shown a consistent beneficial response. We undertook the present study to determine if there is any hypolipidemic effect of L-carnitine on Greek dialysis patients in concert with the dialysate buffer composition (acetate or bicarbonate). A total of 28 patients (16 male, 12 female), mean age 43 years (range 21–61), with end-stage renal disease on maintenance hemodialysis for a mean period of 25 months (range 7–84) were studied. The dialysis schedule was 4 h, 3 times/week using cuprophane hollow-fiber dialyzers and acetate (n = 14) or bicarbonate (n = 14) dialysate. In all patients L-carnitine (5 mg/kg body weight) was infused intravenously 3 times/week at the end of each hemodialysis session. Blood samples for carnitine and lipid determinations were obtained before treatment, and 3 and 6 months following treatment. Even though L-carnitine did not modify most of the serum lipid levels, a significant decrease in serum triglycerides was evident in the whole group of patients (from 225 ± 76 to 201 ± 75 mg/dl, p = 0.03). Furthermore, L-carnitine could decrease serum triglycerides only in hypertriglyceridemic patients (from 260 ± 64 to 226 ± 82 mg/dl, p &lt; 0.05). L-Carnitine resulted in a reduction of serum triglycerides in both patients on bicarbonate and on acetate dialysis, while there were no significant differences in the changes of lipid parameters after L-carnitine between the two groups of hemodialysis patients. We conclude that relatively low doses of L-carnitine supplementation could contribute to the management of some hypertriglyceridemic hemodialysis patients."
	AJN13390	"Urea Reduction Ratio and Urea Kinetic Modeling: A Mathematical Analysis of Changing Dialysis Parameters Urea Reduction Ratio and Urea Kinetic Modeling: A Mathematical Analysis of Changing Dialysis Parameters Based mainly on the simplicity of its calculation, the urea reduction ratio (URR) has been suggested as an alternative to urea kinetic modeling (Kt/V) as a measure of hemodialysis adequacy. However, recent studies have raised questions concerning the accuracy of URR, particularly in the presence of residual kidney function (KrU). This study was initiated to evaluate the relationship between URR and Kt/V under a variety of dialysis conditions. Equations based on the variable-volume, single-pool model described by Gotch were used to construct a model incorporating the variables used in the estimation of URR and Kt/V. The model’s prediction of URR correlated closely with measured URR in 30 patients (r = 0.9987, p &lt; 0.000001). This analytic approach showed that changes in each of several dialysis parameters caused divergence in the values of URR and Kt/V. The model showed that URR could be less than 0.65, while total Kt/V was greater than 1.2, whether or not KrU was present. In fact, when KrU was greater than 1.0, URR could be less than 0.65, while Kt/V might be 2.0 or higher. On the other hand, the model showed instances where URR could be greater than 0.65, when Kt/V was less than 1.2. This occurred only when KrU was less than 1.0. To determine the prevalence of these anomalies in clinical practice, 767 kinetic modeling determinations were evaluated in 207 patients. One of the above discrepancies was observed at least once in 30.9% of the patients, representing 12.1% of all determinations. In addition, it was found that omitting KrU from the calculation of Kt/V generally leads to a Kt/V &lt;1.2. This, when associated with a URR &lt;0.65, could erroneously imply inadequate dialysis. The patient data are consistent with the view that URR and Kt/V are the net result of several variables that may act together or even in opposing directions. Based on this mathematical model and the observed clinical data, the use of URR alone to assess dialysis adequacy, or neglecting the contribution of KrU to Kt/V, may lead to changes in the dialysis prescription that are neither correct nor necessary."
	AJN13391	"Role of the Calices in Urine Flow with Characterization of a Caliceopelvic Sphincter and Reflex Role of the Calices in Urine Flow with Characterization of a Caliceopelvic Sphincter and Reflex Aim: To study the role of the caliceal system in urine flow. Methods: Eight patients (6 men, 2 women; mean age 42.6 ± 7.6 years) with an upper polar renal mass (6 renal cysts; 2 hypernephromas) which did not encroach on the pelvicaliceal system were studied. After mass removal, a manometric catheter was introduced into one of the intact calices. Another catheter was introduced through the same calix, and the calix was filled with saline in increments of 0.1 ml, and the caliceal, caliceopelvic junction (CPJ), and renal pelvis pressures were recorded. The catheter was moved to the renal pelvis, and the pressure response of the aforementioned sites to renal pelvic filling with saline in increments of 1 ml was registered. The effect of filling of the locally anesthetized calix on the pelvicaliceal pressure was also determined. Results: Caliceal filling resulted in a rise of the caliceal (p &lt; 0.01) and a drop of the CPJ (p &lt; 0.01) pressures with no pressure response in the renal pelvis. Renal pelvic filling produced a rise of renal pelvic (p &lt; 0.01) and CPJ (p &lt; 0.05) pressures; the caliceal pressure showed no change (p &gt; 0.05). Filling of the anesthetized calix or renal pelvis produced no significant pressure changes in calix, CPJ, or renal pelvis (p &gt; 0.05). Conclusions: The CPJ dilatation upon caliceal contraction suggests a reflex relationship which we named ‘caliceopelvic inhibitory reflex’. The reflex is suggested to effect caliceal evacuation. On the other hand, CPJ closure upon renal pelvic contraction postulates another reflex relationship which we designated ‘pelvicaliceal excitatory reflex’. This reflex seems to prevent pelvicaliceal reflux. It is suggested that a ‘functional’ sphincter exists at the CPJ."
	AJN13392	"A Cluster of Bloodstream Infections and Pyrogenic Reactions among Hemodialysis Patients Traced to Dialysis Machine Waste-Handling Option Units A Cluster of Bloodstream Infections and Pyrogenic Reactions among Hemodialysis Patients Traced to Dialysis Machine Waste-Handling Option Units From June 17 through November 15, 1995, ten episodes of Enterobacter cloacae bloodstream infection and three pyrogenic reactions occurred in patients at a hospital-based hemodialysis center. In a case-control study limited to events occurring during October 1–31, 1995, seven dialysis sessions resulting in E. cloacae bacteremia or pyrogenic reaction without bacteremia were compared with 241 randomly selected control sessions. Dialysis machines were examined, dialysis fluid and equipment were cultured, and E. cloacae isolates were genotyped by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Each dialysis machine had a waste-handling option (WHO) through which dialyzer-priming fluid was discarded before each dialysis session; in 7 of 11 machines, one-way check valves designed to prevent backflow from the WHO into patient bloodlines were dysfunctional. In the case-control study, case sessions were more frequent when machines with ≥1 dysfunctional check valves were used. E. cloacae with identical pulsed-field gel electrophoresis patterns were isolated from case patients, dialysis fluid, station drains, and WHO units. Our investigation shows that bloodstream infections and pyrogenic reactions were caused by backflow from contaminated dialysis machine WHO units into patient bloodlines. The outbreak was terminated when WHO use was discontinued, check valves were replaced, and dialysis machine disinfection was enhanced."
	AJN13393	Prevalence of Hepatitis C Virus Antibodies in Primary Glomerulonephritis in Brazil Prevalence of Hepatitis C Virus Antibodies in Primary Glomerulonephritis in Brazil The association between hepatitis B virus and membranous glomerulonephritis and membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) was first described in 1971. Recently, a similar association between hepatitis C virus (HCV) and glomerulonephritis (GN) has been reported. We investigated the prevalence of hepatitis C serum antibodies (anti-HCV) in patients with primary GN followed up at our Nephrology Outpatient Clinic between March 1993 and November 1995. The diagnosis of primary GN was established after excluding the presence of connective tissue disease, diabetes, infectious disease, and malignancy. Anti-HCV antibodies were detected by a second-generation enzyme immunosorbent assay and HCV RNA by polymerase chain reaction. Of 81 patients with primary GN, 24 had membranous glomerulonephritis, 17 MPGN, 15 minimal-change disease, 12 focal-segmental glomerulosclerosis, 9 diffuse proliferative GN, and 4 IgA nephropathy. Anti-HCV were detected in 2 cases (2.5%), both were HCV RNA positive and had a polyclonal mixed cryoglobulinemia (IgM-IgG). These 2 cases both came from the group of 17 patients with MPGN. Biochemical investigation in these patients revealed persistent elevation of serum aminotransferase activity, and a liver biopsy specimen in 1 of them showed evidence of chronic active hepatitis. We conclude that in our setting the prevalence of anti-HCV among patients with primary GN is low, being higher (11.8%) only if we consider the patients with MPGN as the reference group. Further studies are necessary to clarify this association and to determine appropriate therapy for these patients.
	AJN13394	Effect of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors on Response to Erythropoietin Therapy in Chronic Dialysis Patients Effect of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors on Response to Erythropoietin Therapy in Chronic Dialysis Patients Background: Erythropoietin (EPO) therapy is a common and effective treatment for the correction of anemia in patients with end-stage renal disease. Simultaneous treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors for the control of hypertension and/or heart failure is often necessary. Recent reports in the literature have raised concern about a potential interaction between these drugs, with a resultant decreased EPO efficacy. Methods: To investigate whether this interaction occurs in chronic dialysis patients, we retrospectively reviewed the records of 175 patients receiving chronic dialysis. All study patients were treated with EPO for at least 3 months, and had normal iron indices. Patients were treated with ACE inhibitors for at least 3 months, at a constant daily dose for at least 1 month (group 1, n = 32), or did not receive ACE inhibitors (group 2, n = 143). Patients with infections or overt iron deficiency were excluded. Total weekly EPO doses and hematocrit (Hct)/hemoglobin (Hgb) values in the two groups were compared. Variables known to affect response to EPO were compared, including ferritin, transferrin saturation, dialysis dose and serum aluminum. Results: Total weekly EPO dose was 17,358 ± 6,871 units in group 1 and 17,612 ± 7,744 units in group 2 (p = 0.854). The achieved Hct was 32.1 ± 4.4% (group 1) and 30.5 ± 4.0% (group 2) (p = 0.079). Similarly, Hgb, ferritin, transferrin saturation, Kt/V, and serum aluminum were not different. The dose or duration of ACE inhibitor therapy did not affect Hgb or Hct. Thus, ACE inhibitor therapy does not appear to affect response to EPO in chronic dialysis patients.
	AJN13395	Glomerular Injuries – Excretion of Glomerular Epithelial Cells – Induced by Chemotherapy (Antineoplastic Drugs) Independent of Tubular Damage Glomerular Injuries – Excretion of Glomerular Epithelial Cells – Induced by Chemotherapy (Antineoplastic Drugs) Independent of Tubular Damage For the purpose of studying glomerular injuries induced by antineoplastic drugs, the excretion of glomerular epithelial cells (GEC) was evaluated. In 13 children who received antineoplastic drugs, the excretion of GEC in urine samples was examined with an immunofluorescent study using a monoclonal antibody directed against podocalyxin, which was expressed on glomerular epithelial cells. GEC were detected in 20 of 25 chemotherapy courses. The excretion of GEC persisted until the next chemotherapy course in some cases. After an initiation of chemotherapy an increased urinary albumin-creatinine ratio (more than 2-fold) was found in 6 patients. A significant increase of N-acetylglucosaminidase was observed in 2 patients. Proteinuria and hematuria were not observed in all patients. These results indicate that glomerular injuries are frequently induced by chemotherapy independent of the tubular damage. Repeated glomerular injuries may result in late renal dysfunction.
	AJN13396	"Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Associated Nephropathy in the Bronx: Low Prevalence in a Predominantly Hispanic Population Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Associated Nephropathy in the Bronx: Low Prevalence in a Predominantly Hispanic Population Reports of human immunodeficiency virus-associated nephropathy (HIVAN) occurring in Hispanics, females and heterosexuals are scarce. We reviewed 858 charts from our total HIV population to determine the prevalence and epidemiology of HIVAN at our center, and to evaluate the renal and patient survival among individual groups, according to race, sex and HIV risk factor. The prevalence of HIVAN was low (1.9%), relative to other centers (4–13%). Although Hispanics accounted for 56% of the HIV population, only 38% of HIVAN patients were Hispanic. The absolute risk of HIVAN in blacks was 3.6%, and in Hispanics was 1.3%. The relative risk of blacks vs. Hispanics was 2.8% (p &lt; 0.04). Women and men were represented equally in both the HIVAN and HIV populations. The mean (± SE) rate of decline in glomerular filtration rate was 3.7 ± 0.9 ml/min/month, and patient survival following the onset of HIVAN was 23.6 ± 4.8 months. We found no difference in renal or patient survival between individual groups. In summary, the risk of HIVAN in Hispanics is similar to that for whites. Male sex is not an independent risk factor. Both renal and patient survival are similar in blacks and Hispanics, and in men compared to women."
	AJN13397	Persistent Transforming Growth Factor-Beta 1 Expression May Predict Peritoneal Fibrosis in CAPD Patients with Frequent Peritonitis Occurrence Persistent Transforming Growth Factor-Beta 1 Expression May Predict Peritoneal Fibrosis in CAPD Patients with Frequent Peritonitis Occurrence The efficiency of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis depends on the permeability of the peritoneal membrane. Peritoneal fibrosis (PF) causes loss of the dialytic function. Several studies have indicated that PF is closely related to the proliferation of peritoneal fibroblasts and the deposition of extracellular matrix. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) plays a major role in stimulating extracellular matrix deposition. Frequent peritonitis occurrence may cause persistent TGF-β1 mRNA expression. In an attempt to search for a factor related to PF, we designed a longitudinal study to measure TGF-β1 levels in dialysate and TGF-β1 mRNA expression in peritoneal mononuclear cells from peritoneal dialysate before onset, once a week during peritonitis, and after peritonitis in high and low peritonitis occurrence (HPO and LPO) patients. Fifteen patients with a LPO rate and 5 patients with a HPO rate were followed up longitudinally. Meanwhile, TGF-β1 levels and TGF-β1 mRNA expression were augmented in peritoneal dialysate effluents before, during, and after the episodes of peritonitis. The peritoneal permeability was evaluated by the peritoneal equilibration test. The results revealed that in the LPO group, TGF-β1 and TGF-β1 mRNA were detectable at early stages of peritonitis, but the levels decreased rapidly and were undetectable 2 weeks after peritonitis. On the other hand, in the HPO group, TGF-β1 and TGF-β1 mRNA persisted for a long time. We could detect TGF-β1 and TGF-β1 mRNA in dialysate effluents and peritoneal mononuclear cells even 2, 3, and 4 weeks after episodes of peritonitis. When compared with that of first or second episode of peritonitis, the peritoneal function evaluated with the peritoneal equilibration test was found to obviously deteriorate during the third episode of peritonitis. These findings were confirmed by an in situ hybridization technique to evaluate the relationship between TGF-β1 mRNA expression and PF from biopsied peritoneal specimens. These findings suggest that the high TGF-β1 levels in the dialysate are related to an increased expression of TGF-β1 in the peritoneum. Thus, the persistent TGF-β1 expression in the peritoneum may serve as a useful parameter in predicting PF in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients with frequent peritonitis occurrence.
	AJN13398	Delivered Dialysis Dose with PD Plus Therapy Delivered Dialysis Dose with PD Plus Therapy Aim: To evaluate the effect of PD Plus on weekly Kt/Vurea and creatinine clearance (Kcr) among patients undergoing CAPD/CCPD (continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis/continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis). Methods: The kinetic studies of 92 CAPD and 18 CCPD patients who transferred to PD Plus were analyzed. All patients underwent CAPD/CCPD and PD Plus for a minimum of 3 months. Standard collection methods were used and kinetic indices calculated with the Pack PD Kinetic Modeling program. 57 patients had transport data and were modeled for a target weekly Kt/Vurea ≥2.1 using PD Plus with ≤15 liters dialysate/day. 6 patients were supervised during the collection periods by research nurses. The actual results for all patients (110) and for the supervised patients were compared against the modeled results. Results:45% of the patients achieved a Kt/Vurea ≥2.1 and 47% a Kcr ≥60 liters/1.73 m2 with PD Plus, but only 20% did so with CAPD/CCPD. A close correlation between the supervised patients and modeled therapy was observed. Conclusions: Adequate dialysis is possible by using higher fill volumes, the supine position, and optimal dwell times (PD Plus) in most patients. The discrepancy between modeled and achieved dose is likely due to poor compliance with therapy, inadequate training, or poor specimen collection.
	AJN13399	"Delivered Dialysis Dose Is Suboptimal in Hospitalized Patients Delivered Dialysis Dose Is Suboptimal in Hospitalized Patients Underdialyzed patients have high hospitalization and mortality rates. It is unclear if such patients receive adequate dialysis during hospitalization. In this cross-sectional study, we evaluated single treatment delivered dialysis dose during hospitalization and compared this to the dosage received at the free-standing outpatient clinics in the same patients. Eighty-four patients (54% male) aged 23–63 years (means ± SD 55.5 ± 14.6) who have been on dialysis for at least 3 months were evaluated. Hypertension and diabetes were the most common diagnoses, while thrombosed graft or fistula accounted for 40% of admissions. The mean dialysis treatment time (Td) was 30 min longer in the outpatient (OP) setting than the hospital (H): 3.6 ± 0.3 vs. 3.1 ± 0.2 h (p &lt; 0.0001). Attained blood flow (QB) was 15% greater in the OP than H: 394 ± 40 vs. 331 ± 54 ml/min (p &lt; 0.0001). The Kt/V was analyzed in 49 of 84 patients; the OP Kt/V was 20% greater than the H Kt/V: 1.38 ± 0.2 vs. 1.11 ± 0.1 (p &lt; 0.0001). A further breakdown of H Kt/V according to access and membrane types showed that patients with functional grafts/fistula had a higher Kt/V than those with temporary accesses 1.14 ± 0.1 vs. 1.07 ± 0.1 (p = 0.01). We conclude that hospitalized patients receive suboptimal dialysis dose, this could have a negative impact on survival if hospitalization is recurrent and prolonged. Kinetic modeling should be routinely performed in such patients and Td should be increased in patients with temporary accesses."
	AJN13411	"Effect of Chronic Therapy with Proteolytic Enzymes on Hypertension-Induced Renal Injury in the Rat Model of Goldblatt Hypertension Effect of Chronic Therapy with Proteolytic Enzymes on Hypertension-Induced Renal Injury in the Rat Model of Goldblatt Hypertension This study investigated the possible beneficial effect of intraperitoneal proteolytic enzyme administration on the development of hypertension-induced renal injury in the rat model of 2-kidney 1-clip (2K1C) Goldblatt hypertension. Male Wistar rats (120–150 g) underwent either sham surgery (control, n = 5) or clipping of the left renal artery. From day one 2K1C rats were randomized into 2 groups, placebo treatment (n = 7), and proteolytic enzyme treatment (n = 9). To the verum group a fixed mixture of trypsin (2.42 mg), bromelain (4.54 mg), and rutin (5.04 mg) dissolved in 2 ml of sterile 0.9% NaCl was administered intraperitoneally daily, while the placebo group received only vehicle. Rats were pair-fed. The duration of the study was 7 weeks. All 2K1C rats developed hypertension and the mean values of systolic blood pressure (SBP) did not differ significantly between the groups at any time recorded (SBP at sacrifice: controls 122.0 ± 8.5 mm Hg; placebo 191.4 ± 7.6 mm Hg; enzyme 180.5 ± 6.5 mm Hg). Enzyme treatment prevented the rise in proteinuria (controls 12.4 ± 2.6 mg/24 h; placebo 19.7 ± 3.9 mg/24 h; enzyme 12.2 ± 1.3 mg/24 h; p &lt; 0.05) and ameliorated the increase in serum urea concentrations. Histomorphologically, signs of malignant nephrosclerosis were not found in control rats, while they were present in 4/7 (57%) of placebo-treated rats, but only in 1/9 (11%) of the enzyme-treated group. The volume fraction of renocortical interstitium was increased in both 2K1C groups in comparison with controls; however, enzyme treatment decreased the accumulation of interstitial tissue significantly (–22%) compared to placebo treatment. Cellular infiltration with mononuclear cells was also lower in the protease-treated group. To summarize, in the rat model of 2K1C hypertension, systemic treatment with proteases ameliorates the severity of nephrosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis in the non-clipped kidney, as well as proteinuria, without affecting high blood pressure."
	AJN13415	Increased Excretion of Urinary Transforming Growth Factor Beta 1 in Patients with Diabetic Nephropathy Increased Excretion of Urinary Transforming Growth Factor Beta 1 in Patients with Diabetic Nephropathy The accumulation of extracellular matrix in the glomeruli of human and experimental models of diabetic nephropathy is associated with disease progression. Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1), which is a multifunctional peptide growth factor, plays a key role in the synthesis of extracellular matrix protein in vitro, and the expression of TGF-β1 is elevated in human and rat diabetic nephropathy. In this study, we measured the urinary TGF-β1 excretion in 57 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and in 20 healthy volunteers to examine whether the determination of urinary TGF-β1 excretion would facilitate the evaluation of the degree of mesangial expansion in patients with diabetic nephropathy. Both active and total TGF-β1 levels in 24-hour urine samples collected from patients with diabetes mellitus and normal controls were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We observed a higher excretion of urinary TGF-β1 in patients with diabetes mellitus than in normal controls. In addition, the urinary TGF-β1 excretion was elevated in patients with severe mesangial expansion. These results suggest that urinary TGF-β1 may represent one parameter that can be used to evaluate the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
	AJN13417	"Combination ACE Inhibitor and Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonist Therapy in Diabetic Nephropathy Combination ACE Inhibitor and Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonist Therapy in Diabetic Nephropathy The benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (i) therapy in diabetic glomerulosclerosis is thought to be largely the result of attenuation of angiotensin II (AngII) effects on blood pressure, glomerular hemodynamics and hypertrophy, and tissue fibrosis. The present study was undertaken to determine whether the addition of AngII receptor antagonist therapy to ACEi therapy in diabetic nephropathy results in attenuation of AngII effects beyond that achieved by ACEi therapy alone. Seven patients were studied as inpatients on the General Clinical Research Center each for 3 consecutive weeks as follows: week 1, the patients’ usual regimen which included daily oral moderate to high dose ACEi therapy; week 2, the patients’ usual regimen plus oral losartan (an antagonist (a) of the angiotensin type 1 receptor, AT1) 50 mg (n = 3) or 100 mg (n = 4) daily; week 3, return to the patients’ usual regimen. Diet, physical activity, and blood glucose were held as constant as possible during the three weeks of daily testing. We found that plasma renin levels increased significantly during combination therapy and then returned to baseline values with discontinuation of AT1a therapy: mean baseline renin values (week 1) 3.0 ng/ml/min ± 1.1 SE, mean renin values during combination therapy (week 2) 7.0 ng/ml/min ± 3.2 (p = 0.0078 by Wilcoxon rank sum test), mean renin values after discontinuation of AT1a therapy (week 3) 3.9 ng/ml/min ± 2.0 (NS compared to baseline values). In addition, 2 patients developed transient hypotension when losartan therapy was initiated. During this short-term study, 24-hour proteinuria, serum creatinine, serum potassium, and plasma aldosterone were not changed significantly by combination therapy. We conclude that in patients with diabetic nephropathy addition of AT1a therapy to ACEi therapy attenuates AngII effects better than ACEi therapy alone. We suggest that combination therapy for the management of diabetic glomerulosclerosis merits further investigation."
	AJN13418	"Biochemical Parameters, Nutritional Status and Efficiency of Dialysis in CAPD and CCPD Patients Biochemical Parameters, Nutritional Status and Efficiency of Dialysis in CAPD and CCPD Patients Background/Aims: Several studies indicate that small solute transport is influenced by peritoneal dialysate volume and dwell time. This study focuses on the clinical impact of peritoneal dialysis modality, continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). Methods: We studied 18 patients on CAPD and 11 on CCPD for 18 months and assessed biochemical parameters, nutritional status and efficiency of dialysis at 6-month intervals. Results: Four-hour D/P urea and creatinine ratios were similar in both CAPD and CCPD patients. However, 24-hour D/P urea and creatinine ratios were significantly higher in CAPD than in CCPD patients (0.9 ± 0.1 vs. 0.8 ± 0.2 and 0.8 ± 0.1 vs. 0.6 ± 0.2, p &lt; 0.05 and p &lt; 0.01, respectively). The dialysate urea nitrogen concentration was significantly different between the two groups (65 ± 14 mg/dl in CAPD, 48 ± 13 mg/dl in CCPD; p &lt; 0.05). Total weekly Kt/V and total weekly creatinine clearance were not significantly different between CAPD and CCPD patients at 18 months (1.6 ± 0.4 vs. 1.7 ± 0.3 and 52 ± 21 vs. 50 ± 12 liters, respectively). Two-way ANOVA with a post-hoc Bonferroni-Dunn test showed serum potassium concentration was significantly lower in CCPD patients at 18 months (3.8 ± 0.5 mEq/l, p &lt; 0.05), and significant increases in triglyceride levels in the CAPD groups by 18 months (301 ± 286 mg/dl, p &lt; 0.05). Conclusion: This study demonstrates that the mean serum triglyceride level increases in CAPD patients over time, and the mean serum potassium concentration decreases in CCPD patients at 18 months. Dialysis adequacy and nutritional status are not significantly different between the two peritoneal dialysis modalities, CAPD and CCPD. We suggest the peritoneal dialysis prescription for CAPD or CCPD with respect to volume and frequency of exchanges be individualized to achieve adequate of therapy."
	AJN13419	Prevalence of Microalbuminuria and Relationship to the Risk of Cardiovascular Disease in the Japanese Population Prevalence of Microalbuminuria and Relationship to the Risk of Cardiovascular Disease in the Japanese Population The prevalence of microalbuminuria and its relationship to cardiovascular disease risk factors were examined in subjects participating in an annual physical and laboratory examination program. The urinary albumin concentration and the urinary albumin/creatinine ratio were determined in morning urine specimens. A turbidimetric immunoassay was used for the measurement of urinary albumin. Of the 731 subjects, 41 (5.6%) who were weakly positive or positive on a routine dipstick test for protein were excluded from the final analysis of data. Microalbuminuria was present in 14.5% of the men, in 12.4% of the women, and in 13.2% of the entire subject population when defined as a urinary albumin concentration of 30–299 μg/ml. The prevalence of microalbuminuria was significantly higher in subjects with a high normal blood pressure (15.0%) or hypertension (26.2%) as compared with normotensive subjects (6.5%). Subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (24.3%) or hyperglycemic subjects (50.0%) had a significantly higher prevalence of microalbuminuria than normoglycemic subjects (11.3%). The prevalence of microalbuminuria was significantly higher in subjects with left ventricular hypertrophy (47.1%) as compared with those with normal electrocardiograms (11.3%). A good correlation was observed between urinary albumin concentration and albumin/creatinine ratio, and both showed a significant positive correlation with age, systolic and diastolic blood pressures, and fasting plasma glucose, total serum protein, albumin, and triglyceride levels, but not with angiotensin-converting enzyme activity. Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that both the urinary albumin concentration and the albumin/creatinine ratio show a significant positive correlation with systolic blood pressure and fasting plasma glucose. The prevalence of microalbuminuria was about 13% in this Japanese cohort, and the systolic blood pressure and the fasting plasma glucose level were demonstrated as independent risk indicators for both urinary microalbumin level and urinary microalbumin/creatinine ratio.
	AJN13420	Interleukin-4 Cooperates with Interleukin-10 to Inhibit Vascular Permeability Factor Release by Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells from Patients with Minimal-Change Nephrotic Syndrome Interleukin-4 Cooperates with Interleukin-10 to Inhibit Vascular Permeability Factor Release by Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells from Patients with Minimal-Change Nephrotic Syndrome Increased production of a vascular permeability factor (VPF) from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in patients with minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) has been reported. Interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interleukin-10 (IL-10), both produced by T-helper type-2 cells, are cytokines with the capacity to downregulate proinflammatory responses. To gain insight into the immunoregulatory properties of these cytokines, we analyzed the effects of recombinant human IL-4 and IL-10 on VPF release in MCNS patients. In the present study we show that the regulatory cytokines IL-4 and IL-10 are potent inhibitors of the VPF activity of concanavalin A-activated MCNS PBMC. Each cytokine was found to suppress VPF release in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, when used at suboptimal concentrations, a combination of the two cytokines resulted in enhanced suppression of VPF release. Neutralization of endogenously produced IL-4 and IL-10 by both anti-IL-4 and anti-IL-10 antibodies resulted in an increased release of VPF. These data demonstrate that IL-4 acts in concert with IL-10 to inhibit VPF release and suggest that they are effective biologic regulators of the VPF responses in vitro.
	AJN13421	"Plasma Immunoreactive Leptin and Neuropeptide Y Levels in Kidney Transplant Patients Plasma Immunoreactive Leptin and Neuropeptide Y Levels in Kidney Transplant Patients Leptin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) seem to play an important role in food intake and energy expenditure. Leptin is secreted by adipose tissue in proportion fo fat stores and is presumed to be an important anorectic hormone. NPY is produced by the hypothalamus, and in contrast to leptin, is one of the most potent appetite stimulants yet demonstrated. On the other hand, in most patients increased appetite is present after successful kidney transplantation. Finally, a stimulatory effect of glucocorticoids on leptin secretion was reported. The present study aimed to assess the relationship between plasma leptin and NPY levels and body mass index (BMI) in haemodialyzed patients (HDP) with chronic renal failure and in kidney transplant patients (KTP). In both groups, BMI was of the same magnitude as in healthy controls. Despite the presence of a normal BMI, leptin levels in KTP (25.2 ± 3.6 ng/ml) and in HDP with chronic renal failure (25.3 ± 4.2 ng/ml) were higher than in controls (11.7 ± 1.8 ng/ml). The mean plasma NPY level in KTP (168.0 ± 10.3 pg/ml) was significantly higher (p &lt; 0.01) than in controls (70.7 ± 5.9 pg/ml) and in HDP (77.0 ± 5.7 pg/ml). In all examined groups, a significant positive correlation was found between leptinaemia and BMI. Conclusions: (1) KTP are characterized by significantly elevated leptinaemia in spite of a normal BMI. In KTP this increased leptinaemia does not seem to be dependent only upon the fat mass and the kind and dosis of immunosuppressive therapy. (2) Similarly to healthy subjects, female KTP and HDP show markedly higher leptinaemia than males. (3) In contrast to healthy subjects and HDP, KTP are characterized by significantly elevated plasma NPY levels."
	AJN13422	Tuberculosis in Active Dialysis Patients in Jeddah Tuberculosis in Active Dialysis Patients in Jeddah The incidence of tuberculosis in The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia remains high. The objective of this study is to determine the prevalence of Tuberculosis among haemodialysis patients, since they are highly susceptible to this infection. A retrospective study, over a 5-year period, was carried out in the Renal Units of two large hospitals in Jeddah. Diagnosis was established by Ziehl Neelsen microscopy and culture of specimens on Lowenstein-Jensen media, radiological and histological examinations. Tuberculosis was diagnosed in 17 of 210 patients on hemodialysis. Pulmonary tuberculosis was present in 10 cases and tuberculous lymphadenitis in 8 cases. One patient had both pulmonary and lymph node involvement while another one had both pulmonary and peritoneal tuberculosis. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was diagnosed in sputum in 5 cases, by lymph node histopathology in 5 cases, and combined radiological and clinical evidence in the remaining patients. The Mantoux test was positive in 9 (60%) cases. Eight patients were diabetics (47%) and there appears to be some association of tuberculosis with diabetes in patients on dialysis. Treatment with first-line anti-tuberculosis agents was continued for 6–18 months. Fourteen (82%) patients were completely cured while 3 showed clinical improvement only. The study showed that successful therapy of tuberculosis in this group of dialysis patients could be achieved but high index of suspicion is required to recognize the unusual presentation in this group of patients so that early diagnosis can be achieved and prompt treatment instituted. Diabetic patients presenting for dialysis, in areas with high endemicity for tuberculosis, chemoprophylaxis with anti-tuberculosis agents should be considered.
	AJN13423	Efficacy of Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty for Patients on Hemodialysis Efficacy of Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty for Patients on Hemodialysis Ischemic heart disease has become more important in regard to mortality in hemodialysis (HD) patients. We examined the therapeutic outcome of initial percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTCA) in maintenance HD patients with angina pectoris. They consisted of 8 men and 4 women with a mean age of 56.3 ± 8.6 years and a mean duration of HD of 4.3 ± 4.0 years. Thirty-six non-HD patients treated with initial PTCA were matched for age, sex and coronary risk factors, and used as a control. Angiographic lesion success was confirmed by angiography in 21 (84%) of the 25 stenotic sites attempted and clinical success was obtained in 9 (75%) of the 12 HD patients, while there were 40 (78%) lesions successfully removed out of the 51 stenotic sites and there were 26 (72%) clinically successful cases out of the 36 non-HD patients, respectively. Angina recurred in 4 (44%) of 9 HD patients, and in 10 (38%) of 26 non-HD patients after successful PTCA, where the follow-up periods were 23 ± 20 and 28 ± 25 months, respectively. There was no significant difference in cumulative lesion survival curve between the two groups. In conclusion, PTCA for chronic HD patients is as effective as that for non-HD patients, at least regarding initial PTCA.
	AJN13424	"Plasma Exchange in Rapidly Progressive Renal Failure Due to Multiple Myeloma Plasma Exchange in Rapidly Progressive Renal Failure Due to Multiple Myeloma Background/Aims: To evaluate the effect of plasma exchange on renal function in patients with rapidly progressive renal failure secondary to multiple myeloma. Methods: The study was done through a retrospective chart review using a standardized form at a tertiary care centre in southwestern Ontario. Patients were included in the study if they had a diagnosis of multiple myeloma and rapidly progressive renal failure. Multiple myeloma was defined by a bone marrow aspirate &gt;15% plasma cells plus one of the following: serum monoclonal paraproteins, monoclonal light-chain excretion, or lytic lesions. Patients were excluded if they had evidence of chronic renal failure or failed to complete three plasma exchanges. Twenty-six patients were reviewed; of these 24 were followed up to 1 year. All patients received hydration, standard chemotherapy, and plasma exchange. The plasma exchange volume was 50 ml/kg of 50% normal saline and 50% human serum albumin. Primary outcome measures included (1) prevention of acute dialysis and (2) prevention of progression from acute to chronic dialysis; secondary end points included (1) a decrease in creatinine of 25% or more within 3 months of the last plasma exchange and (2) survival at 1 year. Results: Sixteen of 24 patients, followed up to 1 year, did not require dialysis. Two patients required dialysis initially, but were able to come off dialysis after 3 months. Fourteen patients were alive at 1 year, 13 of whom were dialysis independent. Twelve of 13 dialysis-independent patients had a &gt;25% reduction in creatinine at 3 months. Two patients were lost to follow-up after discharge and were not included in the analysis. Conclusions: This retrospective study suggests that plasma exchange may offer some benefit in preventing the initiation or continuation of dialysis in patients with rapidly progressive renal failure secondary to multiple myeloma. A randomized controlled prospective study is needed to determine whether plasma exchange should be recommended as a standard treatment for patients with rapidly progressive renal failure due to multiple myeloma."
	AJN13425	Percutaneous Cuffed Catheter Insertion by Nephrologists Percutaneous Cuffed Catheter Insertion by Nephrologists The use of Dacron cuff double-lumen permanent catheters for hemodialysis has become more common in the dialysis unit as patients await for creation or maturation of a permanent hemoaccess for various reasons. Placement of these catheters is often done by surgeons. Nephrologists skilled in the placement of temporary central vein accesses can extend their skill to placement of cuff catheters with the current available peel-away insertion technique. Data are presented on the percutaneous placement of 77 Dacron cuff permanent catheters by 4 nephrologists in two medical centers in a nonoperating room setting with minimal complications.
	AJN13426	Living-Related-Donor Kidney Transplantation Outcome in Recipients with Primary Focal-Segmental Glomerulosclerosis Living-Related-Donor Kidney Transplantation Outcome in Recipients with Primary Focal-Segmental Glomerulosclerosis We studied the outcome of renal transplantation in 30 patients with primary focal-segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and in 30 controls in whom renal failure was secondary to nonglomerular renal diseases. All patients received living-related-donor kidneys, and the majority had one-haplotype HLA matching. Within the follow-up period, the mean serum creatinine values were significantly higher in FSGS recipients as compared with the control group (p = 0.02). However, the frequency of acute rejection episodes and the mean blood pressure values were not significantly different between the two groups. There was a tendency of a higher incidence of proteinuria among FSGS recipients in comparison with the controls. Moreover, nephrotic-range proteinuria occurred only in 3 recipients of the FSGS group. Recurrence of FSGS was morphologically documented in 2 recipients 7 and 18 months, respectively, after transplantation. It is concluded that FSGS as the primary disease has a negligible impact on the living-related-donor kidney transplantation in the Egyptian population. Therefore, this disease should not discourage transplantation for this group of patients.
	AJN13430	Nephrotic Mice (ICGN Strain): A Model of Diffuse Mesangial Sclerosis in Infantile Nephrotic Syndrome Nephrotic Mice (ICGN Strain): A Model of Diffuse Mesangial Sclerosis in Infantile Nephrotic Syndrome The ICGN mouse strain is a unique model for naturally occurring nephrotic syndrome. In the present study, we examined the onset of the clinical manifestation of nephrotic syndrome and determined the sequence of intraglomerular events associated with progression of nephrotic conditions. Laboratory analysis revealed that homozygous (nep/nep) mice showed urinary albumin excretion during the suckling stage, rapidly leading to hypoalbuminemia accompanied by body growth failure. Renal pathology demonstrated that an initial intraglomerular event in the nephrotic mice was observed 3 weeks after birth in the form of mesangiolytic lesions, characterized by microaneurysm, platelet accumulation and capillary ballooning. In 6-week-old homozygous mice, mesangial sclerosis, characterized by mesangial expansion and glomerular hypertrophy, was observed in a diffuse fashion. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the glomerular cells in the 3-week-old homozygous suckling mice were positive for α-smooth muscle actin, suggesting a phenotypic change in the mesangial cells. Mesangial expansion, confirmed by the over-deposition of type I collagen, was evident until 6 weeks after weaning, while it was of interest that fibrogenic cytokines such as platelet-derived growth factor and transforming growth factor-β were not detected in the sclerotic glomeruli throughout the observations. Furthermore, the nephrotic features were shown to be resistant to steroid therapy with a high dose of prednisolone. Our results suggest that diffuse mesangial sclerosis, a hereditary glomerular disease, may be genetically generated through early myofibroblast formation, which occurs and develops probably independently of up-regulation of these fibrogenic cytokines. In conclusion, the homozygous nephrotic mouse (ICGN strain) is believed to be a good model for investigating not only nephrotic conditions but also cellular and molecular pathogenesis of diffuse mesangial sclerosis in steroid-resistant infantile nephrotic syndrome.
	AJN13481	Current Status of Renal Replacement Therapy for Acute Renal Failure Current Status of Renal Replacement Therapy for Acute Renal Failure Although the management of acute renal failure (ARF) constitutes a major component of the activities of practicing nephrologists, minimal information is available on the dialysis techniques utilized to treat ARF in the USA. It is evident from several recent publications that there are wide variations in the dialytic and nondialytic management of ARF. In order to obtain a better understanding of the current practice for dialytic management of ARF, the National Kidney Foundation (NKF) Council on Dialysis commissioned a survey of NKF members. This article describes the results of this survey and provides a snapshot of the current management practices for ARF. It is our hope that this information will provide a baseline for further research in this area.
	AJN13482	Detection of de novo Hepatitis C Virus Infection by Polymerase Chain Reaction in Hemodialysis Patients Detection of de novo Hepatitis C Virus Infection by Polymerase Chain Reaction in Hemodialysis Patients Patients on chronic hemodialysis (HD) treatment have been identified by serological testing, including second- and third-generation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), as a high-risk group for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Previous studies have shown that de novo cases of HCV may occur in HD units in the absence of other parenteral exposures, which suggests the spread of HCV between patients. In addition, the reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), which directly detects HCV virus, has identified HCV infection in chronic HD patients who are seronegative. The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of HCV infection detected by RT-PCR technology in a large cohort of chronic HD patients. One hundred and twenty chronic HD patients, HCV-negative by serological assays (second-generation ELISA) and molecular techniques (branched DNA and RT-PCR), were observed for a mean period of 9.5 months. They were tested monthly for serum alanine aminotransferase levels (ALT) and by second-generation ELISA. At the end of the follow-up period, they were again evaluated by branched DNA and RT-PCR testing. HCV RNA was detected in patients’ sera by RT followed by PCR using two separate primer sets from the 5′-untranslated region of the HCV genome. Southern blot was performed using a digoxigenin-labeled probe. Two patients who had HCV RNA detectable by RT-PCR at the end of the follow-up period remained branched-DNA-negative. Thus, the incidence of de novo acquisition of HCV infection in the current investigation was 2.1% per year. In 1 patient RT-PCR positivity and anti-HCV ELISA seroconversion occurred. The 2nd patient remained anti-HCV ELISA-negative, although viremic. In both patients, the onset of positivity by RT-PCR was associated with a rise of ALT levels into the ‘abnormal range’ in our laboratory. In these 2 patients, de novo acquisition of HCV infection was observed in the absence of obvious parenteral risk factors other than their presence in the HD environment. In conclusion, de novo acquisition of HCV infection may be undetected by ELISA and branched-DNA assays. The need to monitor chronic HD patients by serial ALT testing is emphasized. RT-PCR shoud be incorporated into diagnostic testing for HCV infection in chronic HD patients. RT-PCR technology can identify HCV in HD individuals with raised ALT activity.
	AJN13483	"Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole Therapy in Outpatients: Is Hyperkalemia a Significant Problem? Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole Therapy in Outpatients: Is Hyperkalemia a Significant Problem? A prospective, randomized clinical study was undertaken to determine the effect of standard-dose trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole combination treatment on serum potassium concentrations in outpatients treated in an ambulatory clinic. Ninety-seven patients were treated with oral antibiotics for a variety of infections. Fifty-one patients treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (trimethoprim, 320 mg/day; sulfamethoxazole, 1,600 mg/day) constituted the treatment group, while 46 patients treated with other antibiotics served as controls. Serum potassium, sodium, and chloride concentrations, serum carbon dioxide content, blood urea nitrogen level, serum creatinine level, and serum glucose concentration were measured. The baseline serum potassium concentration in the treatment group was 4.30 ± (SD) 0.36 mmol/l, and it increased significantly (p &lt; 0.001) to 4.66 ± 0.45 mmol/l on day 5 of therapy. Subgroup analysis of mean serum potassium concentration on day 5 of therapy failed to detect clinically relevant hyperkalemia. In patients with a serum creatinine level equal to or greater than 1.1 mg/dl (K+, 4.83 ± 0.48 mmol/l), a nonsignificant difference (p = 0.3) in the potassium concentration was noted on day 5 as comapred with patients with a serum creatinine level &lt;1.1 mg/dl (K+, 4.63 ± 0.44 mmol/l). Although diabetics had a higher serum potassium concentration (K+, 4.91 ± 0.44 mmol/l) than nondiabetics (K+, 4.61 ± 0.44 mmol/l), the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.055). Patients aged ≥50 years (K+, 4.82 ± 0.59 mmol/l) had a significantly different (p = 0.046) serum potassium concentration on day 5 than patients aged &lt;50 years (K+, 4.55 ± 0.28 mmol/l). In contrast, the baseline serum potassium concentration in the control group was 4.37 ± 0.45 mmol/l, and it decreased (p = 0.1) to 4.22 ± 0.4 mmol/l on 5 days of drug therapy. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy, when used to treat a variety of infections, leads to an increase in serum potassium concentration in most patients. After 5 days of therapy with this drug, the treatment group developed a statistically significant rise in the serum potassium concentration as compared with the control group. However, severe hyperkalemia (K+ ≥5.5 mmol/l) occurred in only 3 patiens (6%) treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. In addition, none of the subgroups of treated patients developed clinically important hyperkalemia. This suggests that outpatients, in contrast to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients and hospitalized patients with mild renal insufficiency, develop severe or life-threatening hyperkalemia less commonly when treated with this antimicrobial regimen. However, outpatients having risk factors which may predispose to the development of hyperkalemia should be carefully monitored when treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole."
	AJN13484	"A New Treatment forInterdialytic Hyperkalemia – The Use of Fosinopril Sodium A New Treatment forInterdialytic Hyperkalemia – The Use of Fosinopril Sodium Fosinopril sodium is the first of the phosphinic acid class of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI). It is used as an antihypertensive agent, but differs from other ACEI in its dual routes of excretion (liver and kidney), and less incidence of hyperkalemia and cough. We conducted a study in known chronic hemodialysis patients who developed interdialytic hyperkalemia in spite of other treatments to control hyperkalemia. We used fosinopril in this group of patients to assess the effect of fosinopril on serum potassium (K) levels. Twenty-four patients were given fosinopril 10 mg at 18:00 h daily for 8 weeks. K levels were measured before and after each dialysis treatment. Interdialytic weight gains were recorded. The average pretrial potassium level was 6.57 mmol/l (± 0.47), and the posttrial level was 5.34 (± 0.76); p ≤ 0.0001. No statistically significant interdialytic weight gain or reduction occurred. No first dose hypertensive effect or cough were reported. We have found the use of fosinopril to be successful in lowering predialysis serum K levels in hyperkalemic dialysis patients."
	AJN13485	"Urinary Epidermal Growth Factor Excretion in Children with Chronic Renal Failure Urinary Epidermal Growth Factor Excretion in Children with Chronic Renal Failure To investigate the excretion of urinary epidermal growth factor (EGF) in children with chronic renal failure (CRF), we have measured the urinary EGF/creatinine ratio (EGF/Cr) and the 24-hour urine EGF concentration in 19 children with CRF, 11 children with kidney disease and normal creatinine clearance, and 12 healthy children. Children with CRF had a significantly lower daily urine EGF concentration as well as urinary EGF/Cr. In contrast, children with kidney disease and normal renal function had normal daily urine EGF levels and urinary EGF/Cr. Accompanied by no difference in serum EGF between these two groups of patients, these data provide indirect evidence of the kidney as a source of human urinary EGF. There was a positive correlation of urinary EGF/Cr with creatinine clearance in all renal patients (r = 0.608, n = 30, p &lt; 0.001). A much better correlation was found between daily urine EGF and creatinine clearance (r = 0.855, n = 30, p &lt; 0.001). Our results implicate that there is a functional relationship between glomerular filtration and urinary EGF excretion, and that the urinary EGF/Cr may be a reliable indicator of urinary EGF excretion in children with CRF."
	AJN13486	"Effect of Usual Doses of Folate Supplementation on Elevated Plasma Homocyst(e)ine in Hemodialysis Patients: No Difference between 1 and 5 mg Daily Effect of Usual Doses of Folate Supplementation on Elevated Plasma Homocyst(e)ine in Hemodialysis Patients: No Difference between 1 and 5 mg Daily Hyperhomocyst(e)inemia is a probable contributor to the excess atherosclerosis of patients with chronic renal failure on dialysis. Although treatment with folate 2 mg daily is usually effective in normalizing plasma homocyst(e)ine (H(e)) in patients with normal renal function, higher doses of folate or other approaches to treatment may be necessary in renal failure. There is no agreement among dialysis units regarding the ‘correct’ dose of folate supplementation; routine doses range from 1 to 5 mg daily. To determine whether one of these doses is more effective, we compared H(e) in 55 hemodialysis taking 1 mg folate versus 73 patients taking 5 mg folate daily at two dialysis units. In the group as a whole, mean H(e) was 28.23 ± 17.49, significantly higher than in a group of 290 volunteers with normal renal function 12.31 ± 6.17 (p = 0.0001). H(e) levels were 28.93 ± 16.79 μmol/l on 5 mg folate and 27.31 ± 18.49 on 1 mg; p = 0.61. There was no significant relationship between adequacy of dialysis (Kt/V) and H(e). In a small group of peritoneal dialysis patients, H(e) was significantly lower at 18.8 ± 7.89 (p = 0.026), but further study is required in a larger sample to confirm that observation. It appears that routine doses of folate in use in dialysis units are not sufficient to reduce H(e) to levels associated with average cardiovascular risk; new approaches to treatment of hyperhomocyst(e)inemia in dialysis patients are required."
	AJN13487	Effects of Simvastatin and Pravastatin on Hyperlipidemia and Cyclosporin Blood Levels in Renal Transplant Recipients Effects of Simvastatin and Pravastatin on Hyperlipidemia and Cyclosporin Blood Levels in Renal Transplant Recipients Thirty-one renal transplant recipients, submitted to treatment with cyclosporin in association with other immunosuppressive agents, were also treated for 9 months with two hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, simvastatin (10 mg/day) or pravastatin (20 mg/day), for concomitant hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. Both drugs significantly decreased total cholesterol and triglyceride serum levels, but they did not modify whole-blood trough concentrations of polyclonal and monoclonal cyclosporin or polyclonal/monoclonal cyclosporin ratio. No alterations of the clinical and laboratory parameters investigated were found. The results of this study show the efficacy and safety of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors in the treatment of hyperlipidemia in kidney transplant patients.
	AJN13488	"Growth Factors in Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis Effluent Growth Factors in Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis Effluent Recent studies reveal conflicting results on the change of solute transfer with time on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and recurrent peritonitis. Herein, we performed a cross-sectional study of 76 patients on CAPD to examine their peritoneal permeability by measuring the dialysate to serum ratio of creatinine (D/P) and the mass transfer area coefficients of creatinine (MTACCr) or glucose (MTACGlu). Transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and epidermal growth factor (EGF) were measured in the dialysate by ELISA. TGF-β1 mRNA in peritoneal macrophages were determined by a quantitative polymerase chain reaction. We failed to observe any correlation between the duration on dialysis and the peritoneal permeability in those patients with no previous peritonitis. Frequency of peritonitis episode did not affect the MTACCr, MTACGlu, or D/P. The MTACCr correlated well with MTACGlu (r = 0.78, p = 0.001) and with D/P (r = 0.98, p &lt; 0.0001). No inverse correlation was demonstrated between dialysate PDGF or EGF and the peritoneal permeability. A positive correlation was demonstrated between the dialysate TGF-β1 and MTACCr, MTACGlu or D/P (r = 0.64, 0.54, and 0.64 respectively, p &lt; 0.001). The dialysate TGF-β1 levels in patients with low D/P (≤0.5) were only half of that in patients with normal or high D/P (p = 0.0002). The dialysate levels of TGF-β1 did not correlate with PDGF or EGF. These findings raise the possibility that, other than diffusion across the peritoneal membrane from circulation, there could also be an intrinsic production of TGF-β1 by peritoneal cells in these CAPD patients. Our findings raise the speculation that TGF-β1 in dialysate from stable CAPD patients may exert an inhibitory action to fibroblast. Such action of TGF-β1 could reduce the risk of peritoneal sclerosis and hence, maintains a satisfactory peritoneal permeability to small solutes."
	AJN13489	"QRS Amplitude and Volume Changes during Hemodialysis QRS Amplitude and Volume Changes during Hemodialysis Background: According to several studies the QRS amplitude of the ECG increases during hemodialysis. The detailed background to this phenomenon has not been defined. Two main mechanisms have been suggested: myocardial ischemia and volume changes. New noninvasive technologies make possible a comparison of QRS complex changes synchronously with myocardial ischemia and extracellular water (ECW)/blood volume (BV) changes during hemodialysis. Methods: In this study hemodialysis-related changes in body weight, biochemical blood variables, BV, ECW, ST segment and QRS complex were analyzed in 15 patients (age 36–76, time on dialysis 0–6 years) undergoing chronic hemodialysis treatment. QRS complex and ST segment changes were measured using a dynamic vectorcardiographic monitoring system. The ECG parameters measured were QRS vector difference (QRS-VD) and ST vector magnitude (ST-VM6). Bioimpedance analysis was used to detect changes in the ECW. Continuous measurement of BV changes was implemented using an on-line optical reflection method based on the reflection of infrared light by erythrocyte membranes. Blood hemoglobin (B-Hb), hematocrit (B-Hcr), plasma sodium (P-Na), chloride (P-Cl), magnesium (P-Mg), potassium (P-K), ionized calcium (P-iCa), phosphate (P-Pi), creatinine (P-Crea) and urea (S-Urea) were monitored. Results: The mean QRS-VD increase during the dialysis session was almost fourfold (372 ± 300%) from 4.16 ± 2.40 to 15.60 ± 7.0 μVs (p &lt; 0.001). This change was due to a change in amplitude, since the duration of the QRS complex did not alter significantly. The correlation between the changes in QRS-VD and body weight from the start to the end of the dialysis session was moderate and statistically significant (r = –0.55, p &lt; 0.05). The correlation between the changes in QRS-VD and ECW varied from r = –0.67 to –0.97, being statistically significant in all patients (p &lt; 0.001). The correlation between BV and QRS-VD was assessed at one minute intervals during the dialysis and varied from r = –0.22 to –0.98, being significant in 14 of the 15 patients (p &lt; 0.001). Significant ST segments alterations (ST-VM6 elevation &gt; 100 μV) did not occur during dialysis. Laboratory parameters reflecting volume and osmotic changes during hemodialysis correlated with QRS-VD change: B-Hcr (r = 0.56, p &lt; 0.05), B-Hb (r = 0.63, p &lt; 0.05), P-Na (r = 0.62, p &lt; 0.05) and S-Urea (r = –0.62, p &lt; 0.05). Conclusions: The increase in QRS complex amplitude during hemodialysis is correlated to reduced ECW. The mechanism involved is most probably augmentation of electrical resistance of the tissues around the heart caused by loss of interstitial fluid."
	AJN13490	"Treatment of Secondary Hyperparathyroidism in Hemodialyzed Patients with High-Dose Calcium Carbonate without Vitamin D3 Supplements Treatment of Secondary Hyperparathyroidism in Hemodialyzed Patients with High-Dose Calcium Carbonate without Vitamin D3 Supplements Background: Vitamin D compounds are usually indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients. The possibility to induce a reversal of hyperparathyroidism with calcium supplementation alone is controversial. The present study was conducted to assess if oral calcium carbonate may constitute a therapeutic option for the control of hyperparathyroidism in patients with high PTH concentrations at the beginning of the treatment with chronic hemodialysis. Methods: Thirty-one patients with end-stage renal failure with an intact PTH concentration above 250 pg/ml at the beginning of chronic hemodialysis therapy were treated with high doses of calcium carbonate; no patient received either aluminium-containing binders or vitamin D compounds. To minimize hypercalcemia, a calcium dialysate concentration of 2.5 mEq/l was used in all patients. The goal of the study was to reduce the intact PTH concentration to 250 pg/ml with oral calcium carbonate supplements alone. Results: Throughout the first year on hemodialysis treatment, the intact PTH concentration decreased from 538 ± 256 to 251 ± 218 pg/ml (p &lt; 0.001). By the end of the study, the therapeutic objective was achieved in 22 patients (71%) (‘responder’ group). The remaining 9 patients were classified as the ‘treatment failure’ group. The basal intact PTH concentration was not different between both groups (508 ± 235 vs. 612 ± 303 pg/ml, respectively, p = n.s.), but 5 ‘treatment failure’ patients admitted to take a dose of calcium carbonate lower than that prescribed. There were 40 episodes of hyperphosphatemia (11% of all measurements) in 7 of 31 patients, 5 of them belonged to the noncompliance ‘treatment failure’ patients. Only 15 episodes (4% of all measurements) of transient hypercalcemia (range 11.1 – 11.9 mg/dl) were detected in 8 patients. Conclusions: Secondary hyperparathyroidism in hemodialysis patients can often be reverted by oral calcium carbonate alone. But a good adherence to treatment is absolutely necessary."
	AJN13491	"A Low-Calorie Unrestricted Protein Diet Attenuates Kidney Damage in Uninephrectomized Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats A Low-Calorie Unrestricted Protein Diet Attenuates Kidney Damage in Uninephrectomized Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats Background/Aims: Uninephrectomized, spontaneously hypertensive rats (UNX-SHR) develop glomerular hyperfiltration, hyperfusion, and interstitial infiltrate of the remnant kidney. Consequently, UNX-SHR is a useful animal model to investigate mechanisms involved in the progression of hypertensive renal disease. Methods: Body weight; tail systolic blood pressure (SBP); urine excretion of protein, urea, and electrolytes; and serum biochemistry were determined in UNX-SHR at 2 months of age prior to uninephrectomy (week 0), prior to treatment (week 8) with a low-calorie (LC) or control diet, and one month after diet treatment (week 12). The LC diet was modified to allow equal intake of protein, sodium phosphorus, and other nutrients in both groups. Results: UNX-SHR treated with the LC diet had significantly lower body weights and SBP at the end of the experiment than did the controls (p &lt; 0.0001). Changes in serum biochemistry and 24-hour urinary excretion of protein, sodium, potassium, and urea nitrogen in both groups were not statistically significant. The final glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow were similar in both groups, but the LC diet significantly reduced the glomerular damage index (0.0007), mesangial expansion index (p &lt; 0.002), volume of interstitium per cortex (p &lt; 0.0003), tubular interstitium volume fraction (p &lt; 0.0008), glomerular volume (p &lt; 0.02), and remnant kidney weight (p &lt; 0.01). Conclusion: We demonstrated that in UNX-SHR, the prevention of renal damage by LC diet may involve diminished glomerular growth and interstitial infiltrate without changes in renal hemodynamics. Consequently, LC diet, regardless of protein ingestion, may be an important tool in the prevention of renal damage in hypertension. Additional studies of obese-hypertensive rats may confirm the beneficial effect of a LC diet and weight reduction on the renal damage of obesity-hypertension."
	AJN13492	"Decreased Glomerular Proteinase Activity in the Streptozotocin Diabetic Rat Decreased Glomerular Proteinase Activity in the Streptozotocin Diabetic Rat Decreased glomerular proteinase activity may contribute to matrix accumulation in diabetes. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were rendered diabetic by injection of streptozotocin (STZ) 65 mg/kg i.v.; age-matched, sham-injected rats served as controls. Glomeruli from diabetic rats 1 month after STZ injection demonstrated significant decreases in collagenase and cathepsin B activities compared to control glomeruli. Treatment with insulin resulted in a slight (but not significant) increase in collagenase activity and normalized cathepsin B activity. We conclude that decreased glomerular collagenase and cathepsin B activities are present in STZ diabetes. These alterations may contribute to mesangial matrix accumulation."
	AJN13495	Mesangial Cell Proliferation in Long-Term Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetes mellitus in the Rat and the Renoprotective Activity of Heparin Mesangial Cell Proliferation in Long-Term Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetes mellitus in the Rat and the Renoprotective Activity of Heparin At present, it is not clear whether mesangial proliferation underlies mesangial expansion in diabetic nephropathy. To address this issue and the relationship between heparin’s renoprotective and antimitogenic activities, we studied three streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat groups 5 and 12 months after diabetes induction: two groups were administered a modified heparin, each with a different protocol, and two healthy rat groups, one of which was treated with the same heparin, served as controls. Untreated diabetic animals developed clear evidence of nephropathy, namely expansion of the glomerular extracellular matrix, as expressed by glomerular basement membrane thickening, and increased mesangial deposition of type IV collagen. These alterations were prevented/cured by heparin treatment. Kidney sections were processed immunohistochemically for proliferating cell nuclear antigen and smooth muscle α-actin which is expressed only by proliferating mesangial cells. The number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen positive nuclei and α-actin-positive cells per glomerulus did not differ between groups at both 5 and 12 months. In conclusion, there is no evidence that mesangial proliferation is increased in late experimental diabetic nephropathy, and heparin seems to be renoprotective through mechanisms other than antiproliferation.
	AJN13497	"IgA-Antigliadin Antibodies in Patients with IgA Nephropathy: The Secondary Phenomenon? IgA-Antigliadin Antibodies in Patients with IgA Nephropathy: The Secondary Phenomenon? Circulating IgA-antigliadin antibodies (IgA-AGA) are often found in patients with IgA nephropathy (NP). IgA-AGA are sensitive markers of an abnormal immune system reaction to gluten, seen particularly in patients with celiac disease. However, a lack of IgA-antireticulin and IgA-antiendomysium antibodies and often jejunal mucosal atrophy of patients with IgA NP suggest that most patients do not have latent celiac disease. To examine the relationship between IgA-AGA and clinical data, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for IgA-AGA were performed in 28 patients with IgA NP and in 50 healthy persons. The results were calculated in arbitrary units (AU). The cutoff level for a negative or a positive test was found to be 60 AU, calculated according to the AGA test result (mean + 3 SD) in 50 healthy persons. The following clinical data were assessed: age, gender, disease duration, daily proteinuria, blood pressure, serum creatinine, and creatinine clearance. Control sera were negative for IgA-AGA. Positive IgA-AGA tests were observed in 14 of the 28 patients (p &lt; 0.0001 vs. controls) and high levels of IgA-AGA (AU &gt;90) in 6 of the 28 patients (p &lt; 0.001 vs. controls). The mean duration of the disease of the patients with positive IgA-AGA was significantly longer as compared with the patients who had a negative antibody test. IgA-AGA correlated with age (p &lt; 0.05, r = 0.56), disease duration (p &lt; 0.05, r = 0.40), and blood pressure (p &lt; 0.05, r = 0.48). Antireticulin and antiendomysium antibody tests were negative in all patient and control sera. We conclude that IgA-AGA are associated with the progression of IgA NP. Our findings support the current concept about the pathogenesis of IgA NP, where the defective IgA production itself may be the primary and intestinal lesions as well as the production of IgA-AGA the secondary phenomenon."
	AJN13498	"Intradialytic Dobutamine Therapy in Maintenance Hemodialysis Patients with Persistent Hypotension Intradialytic Dobutamine Therapy in Maintenance Hemodialysis Patients with Persistent Hypotension Intradialysis hypotension is a common problem, especially in patients with poor left-ventricular function. We studied 6 patients who were on maintenance hemodialysis with left-ventricular ejection fraction of &lt;40%, whose dialysis sessions were often complicated with severe hypotension (systolic blood presure &lt;90 mm Hg). Dobutamine infusion during dialysis significantly reduced the number of hypotensive episodes, increased left-ventricular ejection fraction, and decreased the number of emergency admissions to the hospital."
	AJN13499	Evidence for Genetic Heterogeneity in Benign Familial Hematuria Evidence for Genetic Heterogeneity in Benign Familial Hematuria Benign familial hematuria (BFH: MIM141200) is an autosomal-dominant disease accounting for one-fifth of all hematuria of unknown cause in children. Previous observations suggest that BFH may be allelic to recessive Alport syndrome (AS: MIM 203780) with a mutation in the COL4A3/COL4A4 locus. However, it is not clear whether all cases of BFH are due to heterozygous mutation of COL4A3/COL4A4 genes. We report here the exclusion of linkage between BFH and COL4A3/COL4A4 loci at 2q35-37 in a restricted population from Sicily (Italy). Total lod score is –9.6 at theta 0. Furthermore, in some cases exclusion of linkage is evident even considering single families. We conclude that BFH is genetically heterogeneous.
	AJN13500	"Clinical Findings and Outcomes of Intra-Hemodialysis Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Clinical Findings and Outcomes of Intra-Hemodialysis Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Renal failure with severe uremia is still an important cause of mortality, despite effective renal replacement therapy. Cardiopulmonary arrest (CPA) is the most severe complication during hemodialysis (HD). To acquire more information about cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) during HD, we retrospectively enrolled 24 patients (11 males and 13 females) who had CPR during HD in a medical center during a 3-year period. Their mean age was 66.8 ± 16.8 years. The CPR rate of the patients from our outpatient department (0.02%) was significantly lower than that from general wards (0.11%), the intensive care unit (ICU, 0.16%), or the emergency room (ER, 0.38%). Eighteen patients (75%) were initially resuscitated successfully. Only 11 patients (45.8%) survived more than 24 h after CPR, and 2 patients (8.3%) survived more than 1 month, but none survived until discharge. The rates of surviving 24 h and surviving to discharge during HD were lower than those in the general wards, the ICU or the ER. Sepsis (33.3%) and cardiogenic shock (25%) were the two leading causes of death. For analyzing factors affecting the outcome of CPR, we divided the patients into 2 groups by survival time (≦24 vs. &gt;24 h). Patients with heart disease or with prolonged CPR durations (&gt;30 min) had shorter survival. No significant survival difference between the 2 groups was found due to factors of age, sex, diabetic nephropathy, pre-arrest morbidity scores, pre-arrest laboratory data, renal failure pattern, HD duration, the preceding HD time and ultrafiltrated volume."
	AJN13501	"Relapsing Membranous Nephropathy Relapsing Membranous Nephropathy Background: Although controversial, treatment of membranous nephropathy appears to yield a reduction in the degree of proteinuria and conservation of renal function. Methods: We report herein our experience with the treatment with steroids alone (group II, n = 13), or in combination with immunosuppressants (group III, n = 19) of patients with membranous nephropathy and the nephrotic syndrome, with a mean follow-up of 8.37 years. Results: All patients underwent a first remission, with 24-hour urine protein excretion falling to 0.63 ± 0.25 g in group II and 0.62 ± 0.26 g in group III (p = NS) after 12.69 ± 10.94 months of treatment in group II and 18.95 ± 13.17 months in group III (p = NS). Three patients from group II (23%) and seven patients from group III (36.8%) experienced four and eight relapses, respectively (proteinuria in 24 h 4.0 ± 0.80 g in group II relapsers and 4.4 ± 0.87 in group III relapsers; p = NS). On treatment, all relapses remitted (second remission) after 7 ± 6.93 months of therapy for group II and 8.6 ± 6.70 months of treatment for group III (p = NS). Thereafter, no patients from group II, but 3 patients from group III (33.3%) had a second relapse. After treatment, all relapses remitted (third remission) in 3.3 ± 1.53 months of therapy. Conclusions: These studies show that relapses, which occur in one-third of patients, respond favorably to treatment albeit remitting in approximately half the time, and that the duration of remission gets progressively longer in the later compared to the earlier remission."
	AJN13502	"Improvement of Myocardial Fatty Acid Metabolism through L-Carnitine Administration to Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Improvement of Myocardial Fatty Acid Metabolism through L-Carnitine Administration to Chronic Hemodialysis Patients The concentration of carnitine, which is essential to fatty acid metabolism, can decrease markedly in patients on long-term hemodialysis coincident with life-threatening cardiac damage. However, administration of L-carnitine improves the myocardial function of these patients. To evaluate the underlying events of this phenomenon, we used recently developed technology, 123I-labeled β-methyl-p-iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) myocardial scintigraphy, as a test of myocardial fatty acid metabolism. Our results showed that the free carnitine concentration (19.2 ± 6.5 μmol/l) was lower in 11 chronically dialyzed patients than in 8 healthy controls (49.3 ± 7.7 μmol/l, p &lt; 0.0001). Additionally the heart to mediastinal ratio (H/M) of BMIPP was higher for these patients than for the controls (1.91 ± 0.19 vs. 1.52 ± 0.24, p &lt; 0.005), and the patients’ washout rate (WOR) of BMIPP was lower (17.2 ± 6.0 vs. 22.8 ± 4.2%, p &lt; 0.05). After L-carnitine was administered orally to the patients at doses of 1 g/day for 1 month and 0.5 g/day for the following month, the concentration of free carnitine in their sera increased to 85.4 ± 27.0 μmol/l (p &lt; 0.0001). Although the H/M ratio did not change (1.89 ± 0.20) with this treatment, their WOR increased to 21.9 ± 6.6% (p &lt; 0.001), similar to that of controls. The left ventricular end-diastolic dimension and left ventricular fractional shortening remained unchanged, as shown by echocardiography. The results presented here denote that a carnitine deficiency in chronically hemodialyzed patients disrupts their myocardial fatty acid metabolism, which is improved by L-carnitine supplementation."
	AJN13503	"The Plasma Leptin Concentration Is Closely Associated with the Body Fat Mass in Nondiabetic Uremic Patients The Plasma Leptin Concentration Is Closely Associated with the Body Fat Mass in Nondiabetic Uremic Patients Plasma leptin is associated with the body mass index and, more precisely, with the body fat mass. Plasma leptin has been found to be elevated in uremic patients. This study aimed at investigating the plasma leptin concentration and associations between plasma leptin, body fat mass, and glomerular filtration rate in nondiabetic predialysis uremic patients and in nondiabetic patients on chronic hemodialysis. Plasma leptin, body fat mass, and creatinine clearance were measured in 22 predialysis uremic patients, 18 hemodialysis patients, and 24 healthy control subjects. The logarithmically transformed plasma leptin concentration was closely associated with the body fat mass in all groups (r = 0.93, r = 0.83, and r = 0.72, respectively; p &lt; 0.000001, &lt; 0.000002 and p &lt; 0.001, respectively). In predialysis uremic patients the plasma leptin concentration was slightly elevated as compared with controls 10.4 (3.1–59.5) ng/ml versus 5.4 (1.6–47.5) ng/ml (median and range in parentheses; p &lt; 0.05), whereas the plasma leptin concentration was normal in hemodialysis patients. Plasma leptin was not significantly associated with the creatinine clearance in predialysis patients. In conclusion; the glomerular filtration rate seemed to have a limited influence on the plasma leptin concentration in nondiabetic uremic subjects matched by body fat mass to controls. The plasma leptin concentration was closely associated with the body fat mass, and the leptin level might, therefore, be useful as an indicator of the fat mass in nondiabetic uremic patients."
	AJN13504	Efficiency of 1-Year Treatment with Fluvastatin in Hyperlipidemic Patients with Nephrotic Syndrome Efficiency of 1-Year Treatment with Fluvastatin in Hyperlipidemic Patients with Nephrotic Syndrome The influence of fluvastatin, a liver-selective, competitive inhibitor of the 3-hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, on the lipoprotein metabolism was investigated in 9 patients with nephrotic syndrome. All patients had biopsy-proven renal disease as cause of their nephrotic syndrome and exhibited severe hyperlipidemia [baseline: serum cholesterol 358 ± 46 mg/dl (9.3 mmol/l), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 236 ± 18 mg/dl (6.1 mmol/l), triglyerides 333 ± 28 mg/dl (3.8 mmol/l), and lipoprotein Lp(a) 46 ± 11 mg/dl]. After 1 year of 40 mg of fluvastatin, significant reductions of total cholesterol by 31% to 242 ± 26 mg/dl (6.3 mmol/l) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 29% to 162 ± 12 mg/dl (4.2 mmol/l) were observed. Furthermore, triglyceride values were also lowered significantly by 19% to 268 ± 21 mg/dl (3.1 mmol/l). Lipoprotein Lp(a) and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol remained unchanged by fluvastatin. These improvements in lipid profile were maintained during the entire follow-up period of 1 year. There were no adverse events, and the slight increase in serum creatinine observed during the study was considered to be due to the primary renal disease. In conclusion, long- term administration of fluvastatin in patients with nephrotic syndrome appears to be an effective and safe treatment of the hyperlipidemia associated with this disorder.
	AJN13505	Correlations among Expression of Glomerular Intercellular Adhesion Molecule 1 (ICAM-1), Levels of Serum Soluble ICAM-1, and Renal Histopathology in Patients with IgA Nephropathy Correlations among Expression of Glomerular Intercellular Adhesion Molecule 1 (ICAM-1), Levels of Serum Soluble ICAM-1, and Renal Histopathology in Patients with IgA Nephropathy The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the correlations among expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) in glomeruli, levels of soluble ICAM-1 (sICAM-1) in sera, and renal injuries in patients with IgA nephropathy. The levels of sICAM-1 in sera from 27 patients with IgA nephropathy and 7 healthy controls were measured by the human soluble ICAM-1 immunoassay. The expression of ICAM-1 in glomeruli was detected by indirect immunofluorescence. We observed marked expression of ICAM-1 in glomerular capillary walls and mesangial areas in patients with advanced-stage, but not in those with mild IgA nephropathy. Since the histopathological changes in the advanced stage of this disease were characterized by diffuse mesangial cell proliferation and tubulointerstitial injury, the expression of ICAM-1 in the glomeruli may be of value in evaluating the degree of renal lesions in patients with IgA nephropathy. However, there was no significant change in the levels of serum sICAM-1 among mild-stage and advanced-stage patients and healthy controls. It appears that the measurement of serum sICAM-1 is not useful in evaluating the degree of renal injuries in patients with IgA nephropathy.
	AJN13506	"Protein Intake Seems to Respond to Increases in Kt/V despite Baseline Kt/V Greater than 1.2 Protein Intake Seems to Respond to Increases in Kt/V despite Baseline Kt/V Greater than 1.2 The nutritional status is a strong predictor of outcome in hemodialysis patients. Adequate delivery of dialysis is necessary for hemodialysis patients to maintain their protein nutrition. In general, a single-pool Kt/V of 1.2 has been considered adequate dialysis. We recently decided to maximize the blood flow during hemodialysis in all of our patients; this enabled us to increase the dose of delivered dialysis in those patients who were not initially utilizing their maximum blood flow. There were 18 patients who already received a Kt/V greater than 1.2. We were able to increase Kt/V even further in 10 of them, resulting in a significant increase in nPCR and a trend to increase serum albumin over the next 6 months of follow-up. The mean normalized protein catabolic rate (nPCR) and serum albumin remained unchanged in the remaining 8 patients whose Kt/V could not be increased. Our data provide evidence that protein intake in hemodialysis patients will increase with an increase in delivered dialysis above the level generally considered to be adequate."
	AJN13507	"Effect of Amlodipine Therapy on the Monoclonal Antibody 3G8-Induced Calcium Signal in Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes of Hemodialysis Patients Effect of Amlodipine Therapy on the Monoclonal Antibody 3G8-Induced Calcium Signal in Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes of Hemodialysis Patients Chronic renal failure is associated with impaired phagocytosis. This was attributed to the PTH-induced elevation of basal levels of [Ca2+]i of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs) and to the small calcium transient induced by the ligation of the Fcγ RIII receptors of these cells with 3G8 monoclonal antibodies. The blocking of the action of PTH on the PMNLs of patients with chronic renal failure by their treatment with a calcium channel blocker normalized the basal levels of [Ca2+]i of the PMNLs and reversed the defect in their phagocytic property. It is not known whether such therapy would also restore the calcium transient in the PMNLs in response to 3G8 monoclonal antibody to normal. We examined this issue in 12 normal subjects and 18 hemodialysis patients; 9 of them were treated with the calcium channel blocker, amlodipine, and the other 9 did not receive such therapy. The treatment with amlodipine normalized [Ca2+]i of PMNLs as well as the calcium transient in response to 3G8 monoclonal antibody and reversed the defect in their phagocytosis. It is concluded that chronic renal failure is associated with deranged calcium homeostasis of PMNLs which causes abnormalities in the function of Fcγ RIII receptors and consequently results in impaired phagocytosis. Therapy with a calcium channel blocker can reverse all these derangements in metabolism and function of PMNLs."
	AJN13508	Serum Hepatocyte Growth Factor Levels in Patients with Renal Diseases Serum Hepatocyte Growth Factor Levels in Patients with Renal Diseases The serum levels of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) were determined in patients with various renal diseases. In patients with acute-phase acute renal failure (ARF) and chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis (chronic TIN), the serum HGF levels were 0.55 ± 0.24 and 0.44 ± 0.37 ng/ml (mean ± SD), respectively, and were significantly higher than that in the control group (0.12 ± 0.12 ng/ml). The serum HGF level tended to be high also in patients with active-phase steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome (SSNS). The serum levels of HGF were not elevated in patients with IgA nephropathy (IgAN), Henoch-Schönlein purpura nephritis (HSPN), membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN), poststreptococcal acute glomerulonephritis (PSAGN), unilateral renal atrophy, unilateral nephrectomy, or proximal tubular dysfunction. These observations suggest that glomerular disorders cause no apparent elevation of the serum HGF level, and that elevation of the serum HGF level may be associated with tubulointerstitial damage in renal diseases.
	AJN13511	Treatment with a Ca2+ Channel Blocker, Barnidipine, Reduces Platelet-Derived Growth Factor B-Chain mRNA in Glomeruli of Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats Treatment with a Ca2+ Channel Blocker, Barnidipine, Reduces Platelet-Derived Growth Factor B-Chain mRNA in Glomeruli of Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats We investigated the effect of barnidipine hydrochloride, a Ca2+ channel blocker, on the glomerular level of mRNA expression of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) B-chain and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction. Thirteen-week-old SHR were provided with food containing barnidipine (0.6 mg/g of food, average dose during treatment: 53 mg/kg of body mass/day) for 3 weeks. A stable reduction in systolic blood pressure relative to that of age-matched control SHR was recorded after week 1 of therapy. Although no renal histological changes were observed after 3 weeks of treatment with barnidipine, the level of expression of PDGF B-chain mRNA in glomeruli was significantly reduced relative to that in control SHR. The glomerular level of TGF-β1 mRNA expression was not affected by the treatment. Treatment with barnidipine significantly reduced the excretion of urinary protein. Thus, the stable reduction in systemic blood pressure by barnidipine is associated with a reduction in PDGF B-chain mRNA expression in the glomerulus and reduction in urinary protein excretion in SHR.
	AJN13515	"Epidemiology and Natural History of Hepatitis G Virus Infection in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Epidemiology and Natural History of Hepatitis G Virus Infection in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Patients on chronic hemodialysis (HD) have recently been identified as having a high prevalence of hepatitis G virus (HGV) infection. The clinical significance of HGV in this population remains unclear, with no data available as to the acquisition and natural history of HGV infection in this group. Aims: To assess the prevalence and risk factors of HGV in a large cohort of chronic HD patients, and to evaluate the incidence and clinical consequences of HGV over time in this population. Methods: Paired sera from 292 patients undergoing chronic HD treatment in four units in the Los Angeles area were tested for HGV RNA before and after they had been on HD for a mean period of 9.7 ± 1.9 months. HGV was tested by a single-step RT-PCR using two couples of primers located in two different portions (5′UTR, NS5a) of the genome. The amplified products were detected by hybridization with 5′ biotin-labeled probes specific for each region. Results: At study entry there were 50 HGV RNA-positive patients, thus the HGV prevalence was 17% (50/292). The multivariate analysis by ordinal logistic regression model showed association (p = 0.0013) between HGV RNA and the location of patients among the HD units. No other significant associations were observed. Three (3/50 = 6%) HGV RNA-positive patients at study entry and 3 (3/41 = 7%) at the end of the follow-up showed a mild increase of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity in absence of other apparent causes of liver damage. 35 (70%) out of 50 HGV viremic patients had persistently detectable viremia during the study period; 15 (30%) had non-persistently detectable HGV RNA in the second serum specimen. There was no significant difference between the patients with persistently detectable HGV RNA and those who showed non-persistently detectable HGV viremia with regard to demographic, clinical or virological features. Six patients without detectable HGV viremia at the start of the study showed de novo HGV infection during the follow-up, thus the HGV incidence was 3.07% per year. These individuals did not simultaneously acquire HBV or HCV markers; de novo HGV infection was not associated with other demographic, clinical or virological features. One (16.7%) out of 6 individuals with HGV acquisition had persistently raised ALT levels and chronic HBsAg positivity. The prevalence of HGV was 14% (41/292) at the end of the observation period. Conclusions: The prevalence of HGV in our HD population was high; HGV positivity was strongly associated with the location of HD patients among the units; some HD individuals with current HGV infection showed biochemical signs of liver disease without other apparent causes. De novo acquisition of HGV occurred within HD units in the absence of evident parenteral risk factors for HGV other than their presence in the HD environment. A large portion of HGV viremic patients showed non-persistently detectable HGV viremia during the study. Acquisition of HGV was not associated with a rise in ALT activity unlike prior experience with de novo HCV in HD patients. Further investigations are warranted to explain the modes of HGV acquisition and the clinical significance of HGV in th HD population."
	AJN13516	"Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Pseudotumors of the Craniovertebral Junction in Long-Term Hemodialysis Patients Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Pseudotumors of the Craniovertebral Junction in Long-Term Hemodialysis Patients Background/Aims: Pseudotumors of the craniovertebral junction (PTCVJ) are observed in long-term hemodialysis (HD) patients. There are neither criteria for diagnosis nor guidelines for screening. We attempted to determine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings that could be used to detect PTCVJ, to determine the prevalence of PTCVJ, and to evaluate whether destructive spondyloarthropathy (DSA) might be a yardstick for selection of patients for MRI examination for PTCVJ. Methods: MRI were examined in 19 DSA patients (8 males, 11 females, age 61.4 ± 7.3 years, HD duration 17.0 ± 4.4 years) and in 20 sex-, age-, and HD-duration-matched non-DSA patients (9 males, 11 females, age 57.5 ± 6.6 years, HD duration 17.7 ± 4.9 years). We evaluated MRI characteristics of PTCVJ according those which occur due to rheumatoid arthritis. Results: PTCVJ were characterized as follows: disappearance of fat pads in the upper region (supradental PTCVJ), intensity change of the ‘predental triangle’ in the anterior region (predental PTCVJ), and thickening of cruciform ligaments (retrodental PTCVJ). The prevalence of PTCVJ among patients undergoing HD more than 10 years was high (26 out of 39; 66.7%). The prevalence of PTCVJ was not different between DSA and non-DSA groups. Conclusion: We verified that the above MRI findings might be helpful in the detection of PTCVJ. These findings were observed frequently and independently also in patients with DSA."
	AJN13517	"Circadian Blood Pressure Changes and Cardiac Abnormalities in IgA Nephropathy Circadian Blood Pressure Changes and Cardiac Abnormalities in IgA Nephropathy The absence of diurnal blood pressure rhythm is characteristic of patients with chronic glomerulonephritis already before they develop hypertension. The prognostic importance and possible target organ-damaging effect of the absence are unknown. Simultaneously, 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and echocardiographic investigations were done in 12 normotensive and 38 hypertensive IgA nephropathy patients. The hypertensive patients were treated with either angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) alone or in combination with a non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker. The absence of a night-time blood pressure reduction was frequent in both groups (5/12 vs. 20/38). In the hypertensive patients, blood pressure and left ventricular mass index were higher (124.6 ± 23.3/81.2 ± 15.3 vs. 106.6 ± 33.4/67.4 ± 21.8 mm Hg, p &lt; 0.001, and 124.1 ± 46.2 vs. 89.2 ± 45.6 g/m2, p &lt; 0.01). Diastolic left ventricular function was better in normotensive patients, in whom E wave/A wave ratio (E/A) and decelaration time values correlated closely with the diastolic diurnal index (E/A, r = 0.86, p &lt; 0.01; DT, r = –0.70, p &lt; 0.01). In the hypertensive patients, both the left ventricular wall thickness and diastolic function were significantly related to nighttime blood pressure and diurnal index values, but there was no relationship with daytime blood pressure. In conclusion, in IgA nephropathy patients there are mild cardiac abnormalities before they develop hypertension, the abnormalities bearing the closest correlation with the decrease in diurnal blood pressure rhythm. These data suggest the inefficacy of ACEI and calcium channel blockers in treating nighttime hypertension and in reestablishing diurnal rhythm. These phenomena are of great importance in the development of left ventricular hypertrophy and diastolic malfunction."
	AJN13518	Renal Reabsorption of Phosphate in Children with Sickle Cell Anemia Renal Reabsorption of Phosphate in Children with Sickle Cell Anemia It has previously been reported that in adult patients with sickle-cell anemia the serum phosphate value and the maximum tubular reabsorption of phosphate per liter of glomerular filtrate (TmP/GFR) were significantly higher than in normal controls. This does not appear to have been studied in children with sickle cell anemia (young sicklers) and this prompted us to assess renal phosphate reabsorption in this group of patients. We looked at serum phosphate level and calculated renal phosphate reabsorption (TP/GFR) in children taking random urine and blood samples at the same time and using the formula TP/GFR = Sp – Up × SCr: UCr, in 30 young sicklers all of whom had normal renal function (mean age 7.3 years) and 40 normal matching controls (mean age 6.5 years). The mean serum phosphate value in young sicklers was significantly lower than in controls (4.3 against 5.3 mg/dl) while the mean value of TP/GFR was 4.09 ± 0.74 mg/dl in young sicklers compared to 4.65 ± 0.75 mg/dl in the control group (p = 0.0026). Therefore, the TP/GFR in young sicklers was also significantly lower (p = 0.0026) than in the control group. This may be explained by the high serum level of parathyroid hormone reported previously in patients with sickle cell anemia which is expected to lower phosphate reabsorption (TmP/GFR and TP/GFR are identical in children). The lower serum phosphate value and TP/GFR in younger sicklers seems to be in contrast with the relatively high serum phosphate value and TP/GFR previously reported in adults with sickle cell anemia.
	AJN13519	Use of Cefazolin for Peritonitis Treatment in Peritoneal Dialysis Patients Use of Cefazolin for Peritonitis Treatment in Peritoneal Dialysis Patients For over two decades, intraperitoneal administration of vancomycin and an aminoglycoside has been an accepted regimen for the empiric treatment of peritonitis in the peritoneal dialysis patient, until definite identification of the organism has been made. The recent emergence of vancomycin-resistant organisms has been of great concern in many centers. The current treatment recommendation therefore is to use cefazolin in place of vancomycin. We analyzed peritonitis data from January 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997, prior to switching over to cefazolin. Seventy-five percent (27 episodes) in 1997 as compared to 78% in 1996 were due to gram-positive organisms. Twenty-two percent (8 episodes) were due to gram- negative organisms in 1997, 21% in 1996, and 3% (1 episode) due to yeast in 1997, 3% in 1996. Staphylococcus epidermidis (SE) caused 33% of the gram-positive peritonitis episodes in 1997 as compared to 37% in 1996. Twenty-two percent of the gram-positive episodes were due to Staphylococcus aureus (SA) in 1997 and 46% in 1996. Enterococcal infections were 26% in 1997 and 1% in 1996. All of these were confined to only 1 patient. The antibiogram revealed 100% sensitivity of both SA and SE to vancomycin and 100% sensitivity of SA to cefazolin, but only 11% sensitivity of SE to cefazolin. The same patient population had a 48% sensitivity of SE to cefazolin in 1996, showing a sudden and substantial increase in resistance to SE. Even though SE is thought to be a less virulent organism, treating patients with a high probability of being infected by SE with an antibiotic showing 89% resistance is not warranted.
	AJN13520	"Short- and Long-Term Outcome of Total Parathyroidectomy with Immediate Autografting versus Subtotal Parathyroidectomy in Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease Short- and Long-Term Outcome of Total Parathyroidectomy with Immediate Autografting versus Subtotal Parathyroidectomy in Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease A retrospective study was performed in 36 patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) comparing total parathyroidectomy followed by immediate autografting into the forearm (total PTX + IA) with parathyroidectomy (subtotal PTX) over a five-year period. Twenty-eight patients underwent subtotal PTX and 8 had total PTX + IA. The two surgical methods were evaluated with respect to preoperative severity of hyperparathyroidism, perioperative morbidity, and the incidence of recurrent hyperparathyroidism. Eleven patients in total (30.6%) developed recurrent hyperparathyroidism; 2/8 (25%) in the total PTX + IA group compared to 9/28 (32.1%) in the subtotal PTX group (p = 0.699). The median time to recurrence was longer in the total PTX + IA group (39 vs. 16 months), and the median long-term postoperative PTH value was lower (81 vs. 199 ng/l), but these differences did not reach statistical significance. In conclusion, the incidence of recurrent hyperparathyroidism is high regardless of surgical modality. However, total PTX + IA may produce more favorable results with respect to median postoperative PTH level and time to recurrence."
	AJN13521	"Risk Factors for Hospitalization in Well-Dialyzed Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Risk Factors for Hospitalization in Well-Dialyzed Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Background/Aims: Hemodialysis (HD) patients are hospitalized more frequently than patients with other chronic diseases, averaging 11.5 hospital days/patient/year. Hospital costs attributable to renal failure in the US exceed $2 billion per year. The present healthcare climate continues to force dialysis providers to focus on these issues in order to optimize patient care while limiting cost. Methods: We used a novel method for analyzing hospitalization risk, a multiple-event Cox proportional hazards model, to identify factors that influenced hospitalization in a HD unit population over a two-year period. This model allows individual patients to contribute multiple failure events to the model while controlling for the serial dependency of events. Results: 178 HD patients were retrospectively examined. There were 381 hospitalizations during the study period, averaging out to 1.9 hospitalizations and 10.5 hospital days/patient-year. Substance abuse and diabetes conveyed the largest risks for hospitalization (diabetes RR: 2.09; substance abuse RR: 2.24) in the study cohort, exposing the necessity for examining practice patterns and behavioral interventions as means for improving HD patient care. Conclusion: Despite the small numbers of patients in this single-center HD population, the model achieved adequate statistical power. Therefore, it has the potential to serve as a continuous quality improvement (CQI) tool in particular HD patient sub-groups, or in individual HD units."
	AJN13522	Circulating Concentrations of Soluble Interleukin 6 Receptors gp80 and gp130 in Chronic Renal Failure and Effects ofRenal Replacement Therapy Circulating Concentrations of Soluble Interleukin 6 Receptors gp80 and gp130 in Chronic Renal Failure and Effects ofRenal Replacement Therapy Background: Circulating receptors modulate the biological effects of cytokines. Renal insufficiency is known to influence the concentrations of the soluble tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptors p55 and p75. No data are available on the concentrations of the circulating interleukin 6 (IL-6) receptors gp80 and gp130 during chronic renal insufficiency. Methods: We compared the serum concentrations of the IL-6 receptors gp80 and gp130 to those of the TNF receptors p55 and p75 in end-stage chronic renal failure, continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, and hemodialysis (HD). Results: In healthy controls the concentrations of gp80, gp130, p55, and p75 in serum were 82.1 ± 24.3, 87.9 ± 20.2, 1.1 ± 0.2, and 1.7 ± 0.3 ng/ml, respectively. These concentrations were increased to, respectively, 112.2 ± 18.0, 186.0 ± 37.7, 10.5 ± 4.3, and 15.0 ± 7.5 ng/ml in chronic renal failure, to 138.8 ± 18.0, 181.3 ± 46.1, 25.5 ± 5.2, and 19.1 ± 3.4 ng/ml in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, and to 107.9 ± 29.4, 146.6 ± 30.5, 22.9 ± 6.3, and 16.8 ± 6.0 ng/ ml in HD (before dialysis session). The concentrations after HD were higher for p75 only. Conclusions: The data show that the concentrations of the IL-6 receptors (gp80 and gp130) are elevated in chronic renal insufficiency. The increase is relatively low as compared with the elevation of the TNF receptors in this situation. HD does not result in a consistent change in serum concentrations of the various receptors.
	AJN13523	"A Prospective Study of Hepatitis C Viremia in Renal Allograft Recipients A Prospective Study of Hepatitis C Viremia in Renal Allograft Recipients In an attempt to study the impact of HCV viremia on renal transplant clinical course and outcome, we prospectively followed 133 HBsAg-negative end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients, in whom HCV-RNA-PCR results were available, from the pre- to post-transplant period. Eighty (60%) ESRD patients tested PCR-positive, of these, 12 (15%) were anti-HCV negative by second generation ELISA. The viremic patients had a longer time on dialysis (p &lt; 0.001), received more blood units (p &lt; 0.001) and had a higher frequency of pre-transplantation liver disease (p &lt; 0.001). Further, 41% of PCR-positive patients gave a history of antischistosomal treatment compared with 23% of PCR-negative ones (p = 0.048). Recipients with and without HCV viremia were followed for a mean of 31.8 ± 5.8 (range 6–42) months and 29.8 ± 9 (range 6–41) months respectively, p = 0.14. While the prevalence of HCV viremia increased from 60 to 64% at the last follow-up, the anti-HCV seroprevalence decreased from 63 to 61%. PCR-positive patients had higher rates of both acute (p = 0.005) and chronic (p &lt; 0.001) liver disease after transplantation compared with PCR-negative patients. However, none of our HCV RNA positive recipients developed a fulminant liver disease or hepatic failure until the last follow-up. Stepwise logistic regression analysis identified pre-transplant liver disease (Odds ratio = 2.4; p = 0.07) and a cumulative corticosteroid dose in excess of 15 g at the last follow-up (Odds ratio = 3; p = 0.03) as independent predictors of post-transplant hepatic dysfunction in PCR-positive patients. Azathioprine was discontinued due to hepatic dysfunction in a significantly (p = 0.005) higher proportion of viremic patients compared with the non-viremic ones. There were no significant differences between PCR-positive and -negative patients in terms of frequencies and individual causes of graft and patient losses. Our results demonstrate that HCV infection is extremely prevalent in Egyptian hemodialysis patients and is responsible for most hepatic dysfunctions after transplantation. Although HCV viremia did not negatively affect graft or patient outcome until 31 months post-transplantation, the authors would recommend that a viremic patient should have a liver biopsy before transplantation and be immunosuppressed with caution post-transplantation. A longer follow-up may be required to exclude increased rates of HCV-induced hepatic mortalities."
	AJN13529	Antioxidant Effect of Zinc on Acute Renal Failure Induced by Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury in Rats Antioxidant Effect of Zinc on Acute Renal Failure Induced by Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury in Rats Zinc may have an antioxidant effect mediated by induction of metallothionein. Based on the assumption that metallothionein can scavenge oxygen free radicals, we examined whether zinc administration prior to renal ischemia would improve renal dysfunction caused by ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats. Wistar rats weighing 265 g were treated with an intraperitoneal injection of 20 mg/kg zinc 24 h prior to the renal ischemia-reperfusion procedure, which was achieved by a 30-min clamping of the bilateral renal vessels and subsequent 90-min reperfusion. Thirty-minute renal clearance tests were performed before and after renal ischemia in zinc- (n = 11) and saline-treated (n = 8) rats. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substance, conjugated diene, and metallothionein levels in the renal tissues were also determined. Sham-operated rats (n = 5 in each treatment) served as control for the ischemia-reperfusion rats. Ischemia-reperfusion resulted in significantly lower glomerular filtration rate values and marked increases in tissue concentrations of thiobarbituric acid reactive substance and conjugated diene compared with sham-operation. Zinc administration improved the reduced glomerular filtration rate values seen after the ischemia-reperfusion procedure, but not to the extent of pre-ischemic levels. Zinc pretreatment significantly reduced the increased levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substance and conjugated diene during ischemia-reperfusion and increased metallothionein levels compared with saline injection. These findings suggest that zinc has an antioxidant effect mediated through the induction of metallothionein, but appears only to have a minor protective effect on renal function induced by renal ischemia-reperfusion injury.
	AJN13533	"Prescription of Twice-Weekly Hemodialysis in the USA Prescription of Twice-Weekly Hemodialysis in the USA Background/Aims: The purpose of this study was to investigate the frequency and characteristics of two hemodialysis sessions/week, to identify factors which influence or predict this prescription, and to examine the outcomes of patients receiving hemodialysis two times/week as compared to the more common treatment of three times/week. Methods: Data from a national sample of 15,067 adult hemodialysis patients were utilized to compare twice-weekly with thrice-weekly therapy by logistic regression. Results: Patients treated less than one year were more likely to be treated twice-weekly (6.1%) than patients on dialysis for one year or more (2.7%) (AOR = 1.49, p = 0.002). Treatment schedules also varied significantly by geographic region. Factors predictive of twice-weekly hemodialysis (p &lt; 0.05) were older age, Caucasian race, female gender, higher serum albumin, lower serum creatinine levels, and lower body mass index. A higher estimated renal function at the start of ESRD was also predictive of a twice-weekly schedule among incident patients (AOR = 1.05, p = 0.05). In addition, Cox-adjusted survival analysis indicated a lower mortality risk (RR = 0.76, p = 0.02) for twice-weekly hemodialysis compared to thrice-weekly among prevalent patients. For incident patients, however, the results were not significant when adjusted for GFR at ESRD onset (RR = 0.85, p = 0.31). Conclusion: Geographic differences in prescribed treatment remained unexplained by measured characteristics. The survival advantage associated with twice-weekly hemodialysis is likely to be related to patient selection and greater residual renal function."
	AJN13534	"Predicting Factors of Long-Term Results of OKT3 Therapy for Steroid Resistant Acute Rejection following Cadaveric Renal Transplantation Predicting Factors of Long-Term Results of OKT3 Therapy for Steroid Resistant Acute Rejection following Cadaveric Renal Transplantation In this retrospective study, we evaluated the histological and biological predictors of long-term response of renal transplant (RT) patients treated with orthoclone OKT3 for steroid resistant acute rejection (AR). Seventy-three patients, aged 37 ± 12 years, were included in this study between March 1987 and December 1996. All the patients but one had received sequential quadruple immunosuppression (polyclonal antilymphocyte globulins; steroids; azathioprine, and cyclosporin A). OKT3 (5 mg/day for 10 days) was administered for biopsy-proven steroid resistant AR i.e., after 3 consecutive pulses of methylprednisolone (10 mg/kg each). This was the first AR in 46 cases, the second AR in 22 cases and the third AR in 4 cases. Renal histology (Banff) showed borderline (BL) changes in 18 patients, grade I AR in 28 patients; grade II AR in 22 patients, and grade III AR in 5 patients. When treatment with OKT3 commenced (107 ± 18 days post-transplantation) the mean serum creatinine (SCr) level was 325 ± 195 μmol/l; this had decreased to 191 ± 106 μmol/l by the end of OKT3 therapy. The immediate response to OKT3 therapy i.e., within the first month, was not dependent on the histological score. Twenty-six patients (35%) subsequently experienced at least one more AR episode of whom 4 were retreated with OKT3. The overall patient’s survival was 94.5% at last follow-up. The overall cumulative graft survival was 64.5% at 2 years, 52.5% at 5 years, and 40.5% at 8 years. The graft survival (5 years) tended to depend on the initial histological score, i.e. BL 30%; grade I 66%; grades II and III 55.5% (p = 0.08). In a multiple logistic regression analysis we tried to identify independent factors that would predict that a graft would still be functioning at least 2 years after OKT3 therapy. We therefore analyzed the following parameters: donor and recipient’s age; gender; cold ischemia time; HLA matching; panel reactive antibodies (PRA) prior to grafting; previous transplantation(s); total number of AR episodes; the time of onset of the AR treated by OKT3 compared to the other AR; the time of onset of the AR treated by OKT3; SCr levels at days 0, 10 and 30 after OKT3 therapy; histological score (Banff) i.e., the magnitude of AR and the presence or absence of chronic lesions. The only independent factors which would predict that a graft was still functioning 2 years after OKT3 therapy were: PRA &lt;25% (Odds ratio (OR) 7.68 (1.15–51.3); p = 0.035); a grade I AR (OR 10.52 (1.18–93.5); p = 0.035); SCr level 1 month after OKT3 therapy (OR 0.935 (0.87–1.002); p = 0.05). HLA matching and the presence of histological chronic lesions were nearly significant (p = 0.06 and 0.09 respectively). In conclusion, this retrospective study shows that independent predictors of the long-term response to OKT3 therapy for AR in RT patients are the magnitude of pre-transplant PRA, the histological score, and the SCr level one month after OKT3 therapy."
	AJN13535	Association of Dialyzer Reuse and Hospitalization Rates among Hemodialysis Patients in the US Association of Dialyzer Reuse and Hospitalization Rates among Hemodialysis Patients in the US Objectives: To determine if reuse of hemodialyzers is associated with higher rates of hospitalization and their resulting costs among end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. Methods: Noncurrent cohort study of hospitalization rates among 27,264 ESRD patients beginning hemodialysis in the United States in 1986 and 1987. Results: Dialysis in free-standing facilities reprocessing dialyzers was associated with a greater rate of hospitalization than in facilities not reprocessing (relative rate (RR) = 1.08, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.02–1.14). This higher rate of hospitalization was observed with dialyzer reuse using peracetic/acetic acids (RR = 1.11, CI 1.04–1.18) and formaldehyde (RR = 1.07, CI 1.00–1.14), but not glutaraldehyde (p = 0.97). There was no difference among hospitalization rates in hospital-based facilities reprocessing dialyzers with any sterilant and those not reprocessing. Hospitalization for causes other than vascular access morbidity in free-standing facilities reusing dialyzers with formaldehyde was not different from hospitalization in facilities not reusing. However, reuse with peracetic/acetic acids was associated with higher rates of hospitalization than formaldehyde (RR = 1.08, CI 1.03–1.15). Conclusions: Dialysis in free-standing facilities reprocessing dialyzers with peracetic/acetic acids or formaldehyde was associated with greater hospitalization than dialysis without dialyzer reprocessing. This greater hospitalization accounts for a large increment in inpatient stays in the USA. These findings raise important concerns about potentially avoidable morbidity among hemodialysis patients.
	AJN13536	"Hyperfibrinogenemia Is an Independent Risk Factor for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis Hyperfibrinogenemia Is an Independent Risk Factor for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis It is important to identify patients at risk for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis because renal artery stenosis is a progressive disease and a potentially correctable problem. To determine the risk factors for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis, we performed renal arteriography at the time of cardiac catheterization in 270 patients (M:F, 193:77, mean age: 59 years) with clinical ischemic heart disease. Before the procedure, demographic data, medical history, physical findings and laboratory data were obtained. The degree of coronary artery stenosis and renal artery stenosis was quantified with automatic edge detection technique. Significant renal artery stenosis, defined as a narrowing of the diameter by more than 50%, was identified in 28 (10%) patients. Three patients (1%) had bilateral disease. Significant coronary artery disease, defined as a narrowing of the diameter by more than 50%, was present in 231 patients (85%). By univariate logistic regression analysis, older age (68 ± 8 vs. 58 ± 10 years), the presence of hypertension (61% vs. 38%), the extent of coronary artery disease, a high fibrinogen level (391 ± 93 mg/dl vs. 335 ± 109 mg/dl), a low albumin level (3.9 ± 0.4 g/dl vs. 4.1 ± 0.4 g/dl), and a low hemoglobin level (12.5 ± 1.6 g/dl vs. 13.5 ± 1.6 g/dl) were associated with the presence of renal artery stenosis (p &lt; 0.05). Serum lipids, lipoprotein(a), creatinine, sex, smoking, or diabetes were not associated. By multivariate logistic regression analysis, older age (OR: 2.43 analyzed by 10 years increment, p = 0.0001), the presence of hypertension (OR: 2.68, p = 0.039) and a higher fibrinogen level (OR: 1.63 analyzed by 100 mg/dl increment, p = 0.038) were significant risk factors of renal artery stenosis. Fibrinogen level was negatively correlated with albumin level (r = –0.18, p = 0.004). These results suggest that hyperfibrinogenemia as well as old age and hypertension are independent risk factors for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis."
	AJN13537	"Is the Prevalence of HIV-Associated Nephropathy Decreasing? Is the Prevalence of HIV-Associated Nephropathy Decreasing? Initial reports have suggested that approximately 10% of patients with HIV-infection develop HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN). It has also been predicted that by the end of the decade, HIVAN is likely to become a third leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in African-Americans between the ages of 20–64 years. As the morbidity and mortality from HIV-infection has decreased in the last few years, it is possible that prevalence of HIVAN is also changing. We therefore screened HIV-1-infected patients followed in our hospital for HIVAN. A screening urinalysis was performed in 557 HIV-1-infected adult patients between March and May 1998. Of these, 252 were outpatients and 305 were Texas Department of Criminal Justice inmates (TDCJI). Demographic and laboratory data of these patients was obtained from the HIV patients’ database. Fifty percent of the patients were African-American, 36.6% were Caucasian and 12.7% were Hispanic. The mean age of patients was 37 ± 8 years. Seventy-nine percent of the patients were males and a history of intravenous drug abuse (IVDA) was present in 28%. Twenty-three percent of the patients were concomitantly infected with hepatitis C virus, 4.1% were positive for hepatitis B surface antigen, and rapid plasma reagin test for syphilis was positive in 9.1%. In 38 patients who had more than 100 mg/dl (2+) proteins on screening urinalysis, total urinary proteins were quantitated by collecting 24 h urine specimens. Fifteen of these patients had urinary proteins more than 1.5 g/day (12 patients &gt;3.5 g/24 h and 3 patients &gt;1.5 g/24 h). A renal biopsy was done in 14 of these patients and clinical diagnosis of HIVAN was made in one patient who refused biopsy. Renal biopsies revealed HIVAN [9], diabetic nephropathy [2], membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis [2], Fibrillary glomerulonephritis [1]. All 10 patients (5 TDCJI and 5 outpatients) with HIVAN were African-American. Two of these 10 patients had a history of IVDA and another two were concomitantly infected with hepatitis C virus. The plasma viral load (Pvl) and total CD4 count was not different in patients with or without HIVAN [(Pvl log 10.05 ± 1.39 vs. 9.9 ± 2.18 copies/ml, p = 0.78) (CD4: 187 ± 192 vs. 288 ± 249 cells/μl, p = 1.17) mean ± SD]. We conclude that in our HIV-infected population HIVAN exclusively affected African-Americans and the prevalence in them was 3.5%."
	AJN13538	"Seasonal Blood Pressure and Body Weight Variation in Patients on Chronic Hemodialysis Seasonal Blood Pressure and Body Weight Variation in Patients on Chronic Hemodialysis Aim: The relation of ambient temperature (AMT) and relative humidity to systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), body weight (BW), and body weight gain between dialysis sessions (ΔBW) was examined in hemodialysis patients by Fourier analysis. Methods and Results: The authors recruited 144 dialysis patients from a hemodialysis center in Okinawa, Japan where there is distinct seasonal variation in monthly AMT but a constant intradiurnal temperature change throughout the year. All patients had been undergoing chronic and regular hemodialysis three times per week. SBP, DBP, and BW before dialysis sessions and ΔBW were recorded in 1994. Mean monthly Okinawa AMT in 1994 was highest in Augsut and lowest in February and March, and the mean monthly relative humidity in 1994 was highest in June and lowest in January. Mean SBP and DBP were lowest in August and June respectively, and greatest in December. BW was lowest in July and September, and greatest in February and March; ΔBW was lowest in July and greatest in January. These seasonal patterns were well reproduced by the first Fourier component. The cross-correlation coefficient showed that monthly mean AMT and SBP, DBP, BW, and ΔBW were correlated with a lag time of 5 or 6 months. The cross correlation coefficient showed that relative humidity and SBP, DBP and ΔBW were also correlated with a 6-month lag time. In analyzing subgroups of patients according to the presence or absence of antihypertensive medications, a seasonal change was observed in the SBP and DBP of patients not being treated with antihypertensives, and in the DBP of patients taking antihypertensive medications, but not in the SBP of patients taking antihypertensive medications. Conclusion: Seasonal variations in SBP, DBP, BW and ΔBW were evident. AMT and the relative humidity correlated strongly with SBP, DBP, BW and ΔBW. The clinical implications of these findings in hemodialysis patients warrant further investigation."
	AJN13539	"Urea Kinetics with Dialyzer Reuse – A Prospective Study Urea Kinetics with Dialyzer Reuse – A Prospective Study We performed a prospective study to examine the impact of dialyzer reuse on KT/V under rigidly standardized conditions on 3 membrane types. Heparin dosage was standardized with ACT during an eight week run-in period and remained unchanged through the study. Post dialysis BUN and weight were obtained at five minutes after exactly 80 ± 0.5 l of blood were processed through the dialyzer. Dialyzers were reused after automated glutaraldehyde processing and after ensuring &gt;80% open fiber bundles. Each membrane type was utilized 3 times on a set of 3 patients; each individual dialyzer was reused 8 times. KT/V was done on the 1st, 2nd, 4th and 8th uses of each dialyzer (36 measurements) starting mid week; BUN measurements were grouped. The KT/V (mean ± SD) for the 1st, 2nd, 4th, and 8th uses of the cellulose acetate dialyzer were 1.3 ± 0.2, 1.3 ± 0.3, 1.3 ± 0.2, 1.3 ± 0.2 respectively; the corresponding values of the cuprophane dialyzer were 1.4 ± 0.3, 1.4 ± 0.3, 1.3 ± 0.4, 1.3 ± 0.3 respectively; and those of the polysulfone dialyzer 1.7 ± 0.3, 1.6 ± 0.2, 1.6 ± 0.2 respectively. By a 3 way ANOVA there were no significant differences between the 1st and subsequent uses of any of the dialyzers tested. Conclusions: Reuse of dialyzers up to 8 times does not result in a loss of urea clearance. We believe this model is useful for further studies on reuse and quality assurance."
	AJN13543	High-Resolution Ultrastructural Comparison of Renal Glomerular and Tubular Basement Membranes High-Resolution Ultrastructural Comparison of Renal Glomerular and Tubular Basement Membranes Background/Aims: Glomerular basement membranes (GBM) and tubular basement membranes (TBM) consist of a fine meshwork composed mainly of type IV collagen. Each segment of tubules has specialized physiologic functions, and thus we investigated the ultrastructure of various basement membranes in rat kidneys. Methods: Since purifying basement membranes from different tubule segments is technically challenging, we employed tissue negative staining rather than conventional negative staining to compare the ultrastructures of proximal and distal TBM and GBM in normal rats. We also assessed the distribution of extracellular matrix components including type IV collagen, laminin, heparan sulfate proteoglycan, and fibronectin in the basement membranes by immunohistochemistry. Results: TBM and GBM of normal rats showed a fine meshwork structure consisting of fibrils forming small round to oval pores. Short- and long-pore diameters in proximal tubules were 3.3 ± 0.5 and 3.9 ± 0.6 nm, respectively, and in distal tubules 3.5 ± 0.7 and 4.3 ± 0.8 nm, respectively. For GBM the respective diameters were 2.5 ± 0.5 and 3.0 ± 0.5 nm. Immunohistochemical analysis showed no significant difference in distribution of extracellular matrix components between proximal and distal TBM. However, immunofluorescence scores of α1 chain of type IV collagen, fibronectin, and laminin were higher in the TBM than in the GBM. On the other hand, heparan sulfate proteoglycan was higher in the GBM. Conclusion: Ultrastructural differences in renal basement membranes may be related to differences in physiologic function in each segment.
	AJN13544	Renal Myofibroblasts Contract Collagen I Matrix Lattices in vitro Renal Myofibroblasts Contract Collagen I Matrix Lattices in vitro Myofibroblasts, cells with both fibroblastic and smooth muscle cell features, have been implicated in renal scarring. In addition to synthetic properties, contractile features and integrin expression may allow myofibroblasts to rearrange and contract interstitial collagenous proteins. Myofibroblasts from normal rat kidneys were grown in cell-populated collagen lattices to measure cell generated contraction. Following detachment of cell populated collagen lattices, myofibroblasts progressively contracted collagen lattices, reducing lattice diameter by 42% at 24 h. Alignment of myofibroblasts, rearrangement of fibrils and β1 integrin expression were observed within lattices. We postulate that interstitial myofibroblasts contribute to renal scarring through manipulation of collagenous proteins.
	AJN13545	High Density Lipoprotein Catabolism in Primary Cultured Hepatocytes from Daunomycin-Induced Nephrotic Rats High Density Lipoprotein Catabolism in Primary Cultured Hepatocytes from Daunomycin-Induced Nephrotic Rats We investigated into HDL (high density lipoprotein) catabolism with primary cultured hepatocytes to elucidate the causes of increased HDL apolipoproteins in the plasma of daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats (D rats). The phospholipid, triglyceride, cholesterol, cholesteryl ester and apolipoprotein contents in HDL increased in D rats compared with control rats (C rats). The uptake (binding plus internalization) of 125I-HDL from D rats to two groups of hepatocytes was significantly greater than that of 125I-HDL from C rats. Uptake of 125I-HDL from D rats to D rats’ hepatocytes was significantly greater than that of 125I-HDL from C rats to C rats’ hepatocytes. The degradation of 125I-HDL from D rats was greater than that of 125I-HDL from C rats using two groups of hepatocytes. These results demonstrated that the uptake and degradation of HDL to D rats’ hepatocytes were greater than those of HDL to C rats’ hepatocytes. The increased HDL apolipoprotein content in the plasma of D rats may not be due to decreased uptake and degradation of HDL in hepatocytes compared with C rats.
	AJN13549	Pravastatin Treatment of Very Low Density, Intermediate Density and Low Density Lipoproteins in Hypercholesterolemia and Combined Hyperlipidemia Secondary to the Nephrotic Syndrome Pravastatin Treatment of Very Low Density, Intermediate Density and Low Density Lipoproteins in Hypercholesterolemia and Combined Hyperlipidemia Secondary to the Nephrotic Syndrome Background/Aims: In the current study pravastatin was used in nephrotic syndrome patients with hypercholesterolemia and combined hyperlipidemia to test whether the drug decreases production of LDL and reduces levels of VLDL and IDL. Methods: Thirteen patients (7 with high LDL alone and 6 with high VLDL, IDL and LDL) were randomized in a placebo-controlled study that had a crossover design. Patients were treated 8 weeks with pravastatin (40 mg/day) (or placebo) and switched to the corresponding placebo/drug for another 8 weeks. During each phase of the trial, patients had measurement of plasma levels of lipoprotein lipids, and turnover rates of autologous LDL apo B. Results: Pravastatin increased LDL clearance by 16.7% and reduced total cholesterol content per LDL particle in patients with hypercholesterolemia. In combined hyperlipidemia, LDL clearance increased by 19% and there was no significant change in the production of LDL-apo B. Levels of VLDL+IDL apo B were not reduced significantly, while the total cholesterol content of these particles was reduced by 31.7%. Conclusion: Pravastatin effectively reduced LDL levels in both types of dyslipidemia by increasing LDL clearance. Treatment had no effect on production of LDL or on levels of VLDL+IDL-apo B. Thus, pravastatin increases LDL clearance. Statins do not seem to affect production rates of apo B-containing lipoproteins. Treatment of combined hyperlipidemia may require pravastatin and an added drug targeted to normalize levels of VLDL and IDL.
	AJN13550	"Ex vivo Flow Cytometry Determination of Intracytoplasmic Expression of IL-2, IL-6, IFN-γ, and TNF-α in Monocytes and T Lymphocytes, in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Ex vivo Flow Cytometry Determination of Intracytoplasmic Expression of IL-2, IL-6, IFN-γ, and TNF-α in Monocytes and T Lymphocytes, in Chronic Hemodialysis Patients Aims: To determine the intracytoplasmic expression of TNF-α, IL-2, IL-6 and IFN-γ, ex vivo and in vitro, in both monocytes and T lymphocytes by flow cytometry after appropriate stimulation using phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)/ionomycin or lipopolysaccharides (LPS) in the presence of monensin, in order to assess the bio(in)compatibility of different dialysis membranes. Methods: We examined monocytes and T lymphocytes taken from chronic hemodialysis patients (using either cuprophane (CUP), n = 6; polyacrylonitrile (AN 69), n = 6; or polysulfone (PS), n = 6 membranes), before and after a dialysis session. We compared the results with those obtained from end-stage chronic renal failure patients (n = 3) and healthy volunteers (n = 11). Results: Before any stimulation there was a statistically significant difference in the percentages of TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ- expressing monocytes with respect to the dialysis membrane used. The highest percentages were observed for CUP and AN69 patients with figures of around 30% for each cytokine; the lowest percentages were found in PS patients and healthy volunteers. One hour after LPS stimulation the patterns remained unchanged for TNF-α and IFN-γ, whereas the percentages of IL-6-expressing cells in PS patients and in healthy volunteers reached the figures obtained in the other groups. When we examined the percentage of IFN-γ-, TNF-α- and IL-6-expressing monocytes in patients before and after a dialysis session, before any stimulation, we found that the results were significantly different for the three membranes (p = 0.01). Thus, a dialysis session with polysulfone membranes had no significant effect on the precentages of IFN-γ-, TNF-α-, and IL-6-expressing monocytes, whereas percentages were significantly lower after the dialysis session when using cuprophane or AN69 membranes, suggesting a release of these cytokines by the monocytes during dialysis. A significant number of IFN-γ- and IL-2-expressing T lymphocytes were only detected after 18 hours of PMA/ionomycin stimulation. The percentages of IFN-γ-expressing T cells recorded for the different membranes were not statistically different from those recorded for healthy subjects or pre-dialysis patients, i.e., they were between 11.5 and 20%. However, the percentages of IL-2-expressing T lymphocytes were significantly different between the 5 groups, i.e., 31.3, 30.5, 18.6, 13.9 and 7.6%, respectively, for CUP patients, pre-dialysis patients, healthy volunteers, PS and AN69 patients. This suggests that pre-dialysis and CUP patients have, at baseline, a stimulation of their T lymphocytes. Finally, a 4-hour dialysis session had no impact on the percentages of IL-2-expressing T lymphocytes, whereas it was associated with a significant decrease in the percentage of IFN-γ-expressing cells, but only when cuprophane membranes were used. Conclusion: Cytokine flow cytometry enables one to study, ex vivo, i.e., without any stimulation of the cells, and in vitro after appropriate stimulation, the bio(in)compatibility of dialysis membranes assessed by the intracytoplasmic cytokine profiles of TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-6 and IL-2, evaluated at the single cell level."
	AJN13551	Morphologic Abnormalities in the Brain of Chronically Hemodialyzed Patients without Cerebrovascular Disease Morphologic Abnormalities in the Brain of Chronically Hemodialyzed Patients without Cerebrovascular Disease In this study, the authors evaluated the cerebral atrophy in 56 chronic hemodialyzed patients, who did not have clinical episodes or radiologic findings of cerebrovascular diseases, and 42 controls. Using computed tomography (CT) images, brain atrophy index (BAI), the proportion of subarachnoidal plus ventricular space in the cranial cavity, and ventricular area index (VAI), percent area of ventricle in the brain, were calculated. CT of the brain demonstrated an age-dependent increase in BAI in both hemodialyzed patients and controls. BAI and VAI were greater in hemodialyzed patients than healthy controls and the difference was significant at ages under 60 years in BAI and at ages less than 50 years in VAI. The atrophy of the frontal parts of the brain in patients on hemodialysis for 10 years or more was significantly greater than in patients dialyzed for less than 10 years. There was a significant negative correlation between BAI or VAI and hematocrit. These findings indicate that renal failure or hemodialysis itself might cause cerebral atrophy, and that the cerebral atrophy is more prominent in patients on hemodialysis for a long duration and with low hematocrit.
	AJN13552	"Elevation of Serum Levels of Metalloproteinase-1, Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-1 and Type IV Collagen, and Plasma Levels of Metalloproteinase-9 in Polycystic Kidney Disease Elevation of Serum Levels of Metalloproteinase-1, Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-1 and Type IV Collagen, and Plasma Levels of Metalloproteinase-9 in Polycystic Kidney Disease Several studies on polycystic kidney disease (PKD) have revealed a number of extracellular matrix (ECM) abnormalities, suggesting that an abnormal ECM plays a role in the development of tubular cysts. Cystic kidney tubules synthesize and secrete high levels of metalloproteinases (MMP), which may participate in the restructuring of the tubular basement membrane. The aim of the present study was to determine whether serum MMP-1, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1, and type IV collagen levels, and plasma MMP-9 levels were altered in patients with PKD. Sixteen patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, and 20 healthy controls were included in this study. Specific enzyme immunoassays were used to measure MMP-1, MMP-9, TIMP-1, and type IV collagen levels. Serum MMP-1 (14.8 ± 3.6 ng/ml), TIMP-1 (288.6 ± 48.6 ng/ml), and type IV collagen (192.6 ± 38.8 ng/ml) concentrations, and plasma MMP-9 (90.2 ± 26.8 ng/ml) concentrations in patients with PKD were significantly higher than those in healthy controls (MMP-1; 6.6 ± 0.9 ng/ml, p &lt; 0.01, MMP-9; 36.4 ± 12.2 ng/ml, p &lt; 0.01, TIMP-1; 164.6 ± 22.8 ng/ml, p &lt; 0.01, and type IV collagen; 86.6 ± 14.2 ng/ml, p &lt; 0.001). The present results suggest that ECM abnormalities associated with cystic kidney may result from aberrant degradation as well as from abnormal synthesis of ECM components."
	AJN13553	"Hyponatremia in Acute-Phase Response Syndrome Patients in General Surgical Wards Hyponatremia in Acute-Phase Response Syndrome Patients in General Surgical Wards Background: In surgical patients, hypoalbuminemia may occur as a component of acute-phase response (APR) syndrome, which we hypothesized could decrease serum sodium levels. Aim: To compare the frequency of hyponatremia in adult surgical inpatients with or without APR syndrome. Methods: All the simultaneous plasma sodium and albumin results (n = 168), obtained from adults in surgical wards and corresponding to a 6-month period, were searched in the hospital mainframe. Other relevant laboratory and clinical data were also registered. APR was ascertained by the presence of major physical trauma, surgery or infection, plus hypoalbuminemia (serum albumin &lt;3.5 g/dl) and neutrophil left shift (≥7% of band count) associated with peripheral leukopenia (white blood cells &lt;4,000/mm3) or leukocytosis (WBC &gt;9,000/mm3). Hyponatremia was defined by serum sodium concentration &lt;135 mEq/l. Results: APR-positive patients (n = 113) had lower blood hemoglobin (10.92 ± 2.18 vs. 13.53 ± 2.30 g/dl), and serum albumin levels (median, range: 2.8, 1.9–3.4 vs. 3.7, 3.5–4.2 g/dl) than APR-negative (n = 55) ones, the same occurring in relation to antibiotics (54.8 vs. 10.9%) and intravenous 5% dextrose in water (55.7 vs. 20.0%) or isotonic saline (46.0 vs. 9.1%) infusion. The hyponatremia frequency was higher among APR-positive patients (31.0 vs. 10.9%). Conclusion: The higher percentage of hyponatremia among APR-positive patients could be attributed to decreased serum albumin levels associated with APR."
	AJN13554	Regulation of the Urine Concentration Mechanism by the Oropharyngeal Afferent Pathway in Man Regulation of the Urine Concentration Mechanism by the Oropharyngeal Afferent Pathway in Man Background: It has been reported that the oropharyngeal afferent pathway behaves as a first-order factor regulating body fluid. However, the neural mechanism has not yet been clear. This study was designed to elucidate the characteristics of the neural mechanism in man. Methods: Healthy human subjects kept either an isotonic or hypertonic solution in the oral cavity so as to moisten the oropharyngeal mucosa without intake for 20 min. Plasma vasopressin (AVP) concentration, urine volume and urine and plasma osmolalities were measured before and after the application. Results: The oropharyngeal application of isotonic saline induced no significant changes in plasma AVP concentration, urine volume and osmolality, while that of hypertonic saline induced a significant decrease and increase in urine volume and osmolality, respectively. The plasma AVP concentration increased significantly after the application of hypertonic saline. Mannitol also induced a significant decrease and increase in urine volume and osmolality, respectively. However, the urinary responses after the application of mannitol were delayed compared with those of hypertonic saline. There were no significant changes in plasma osmolality before and after each application. Conclusion: These results suggest that the oropharyngeal afferent pathway from the oropharynx to hypothalamic AVP-producing cells takes part in the thirst mechanism regulating body fluid in humans. The oropharyngeal afferent signals may behave as sodium-chloride-sensitive osmoreceptor.
	AJN13555	"Acute Effects of Oral Calcium Load on Parathyroid Function and on Bone Resorption in Young Men Acute Effects of Oral Calcium Load on Parathyroid Function and on Bone Resorption in Young Men Aim: The aim of the present study was to check whether a calcium oral load was able to inhibit bone resorption as assessed by urinary excretion of a new bone marker, type 1 collagen cross-linked C-telopeptide (CrossLapsTM), in healthy young male adults. Methods: Twenty healthy young male adults (age 22 ± 2 years) were studied. In one series of assays, an oral calcium load of 1 g of elemental calcium as calcium citrate dissolved in 200 ml of low-calcium water was ingested, while in another series of assays the subjects ingested 200 ml of water alone. Blood samples were collected before and 1, 2, 3 and 4 h after the intake of calcium. Urine was collected at 2-hour intervals, i.e. before and for 4 h after the intake of calcium. Serum ionized calcium, phosphate and intact parathormone (iPTH) were measured at each time point. Urinary calcium, phosphate, creatinine and CrossLaps (as a ratio to creatinine) were measured in each urine sample. Results: Calcium intake was associated with very significant (ANOVA, p &lt; 0.001) increases in serum ionized calcium and decreases in PTH. After calcium intake, measurements of urinary CrossLaps showed a progressive statistically significant (ANOVA, p &lt; 0.001) decrease (–20% at 2 h and –55% at 4 h), whereas after ingestion of water, the changes were modest and not statistically significant. Conclusions: The present results show that bone resorption as assessed by urinary excretion of CrossLaps can be significantly suppressed by the ingestion of a 1-gram calcium load and attest that calcium supplementation has an acute effect on bone metabolism."
	AJN13556	"Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor as an Adjuvant to Hepatitis B Vaccination in Maintenance Hemodialysis Patients Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor as an Adjuvant to Hepatitis B Vaccination in Maintenance Hemodialysis Patients Patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD) have poor seroconversion rate after hepatitis B vaccination. The present study was designed to test the efficacy of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) as an adjuvant to hepatitis B vaccination for improving seroconversion rate in maintenance HD patients. Twelve chronic HD patients were randomly assigned to receive either hepatitis B vaccination alone or hepatitis B vaccination 24 h after 1 dose of GM-CSF for primary immunization. A group of 16 chronic HD patients who had not seroconverted after a standard two-dose hepatitis B vaccination were randomly assigned either to a booster dose of hepatitis B vaccine alone or a booster dose given 24 h after one dose of GM-CSF. In the primary immunization group only 2 of 6 patients (33%) who had received vaccination alone, versus 5 of 6 patients (83%) who had received hepatitis B vaccine after one dose of GM-CSF, developed seroprotective antibody titers. Moreover, seroprotective antibody titers (IU/ml) were significantly higher in the latter group (275 ± 286.5 vs. 14 ± 22, p &lt; 0.05). In patients who had not seroconverted with prior hepatitis B vaccination, GM-CSF adjuvant therapy significantly increased the seroconversion rate versus booster dose alone (87.5 vs. 25%, respectively, p &lt; 0.02), with significantly higher seroprotective antibody titers (84 ± 80 vs. 19 ± 33 IU/ml, respectively, p &lt; 0.05). These findings suggest that administration of one dose of GM-CSF, as adjuvant therapy, prior to primary or booster dose hepatitis B vaccination may significantly increase seroconversion rate and seroprotective antibody titers in chronic HD patients."
	AJN13557	"Clinical Implications of Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody Test in Lupus Nephritis Clinical Implications of Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody Test in Lupus Nephritis To elucidate the prevalence and clinical implications of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) in lupus nephritis (LN), we examined ANCA by indirect immunofluorescence and by ELISA against antilactoferrin (anti-LF) and antimyeloperoxidase (anti-MPO) antibody. To discriminate perinuclear ANCA (pANCA) with antinuclear antibody (ANA), all the ANCA-positive sera were tested again after incubating patients’ sera with single-stranded (SS) and double-stranded (ds) DNA. These results were compared with clinicopathologic manifestations and clinical courses of LN. ANCA was positive in 19 (37.3%) of 51 LN patients. Among these LN patients, 3 had cytoplasmic ANCA (cANCA) and 16 had pANCA. ANCA was not found in 8 SLE patients without nephritis and 30 normal controls. The presence of ANCA, particularly pANCA, was associated with the presence of nephritis (18/51 cases vs. 0/8 cases, p &lt; 0.05), especially with diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis, WHO class IV (17/18 cases vs. 21/31 cases, p &lt; 0.05) as well as the presence of anti-dsDNA antibody (17/19 cases vs. 18/30 cases, p &lt; 0.05). Patients with ANCA frequently had deterioration of renal function (3/16 vs. 0/26 cases). Anti-LF antibody was positive in 13 patients. Among those, 12 patients had nephritis. Five patients with anti-LF antibody did not have ANCA, but 7 had pANCA, and 1 had cANCA. Patients with anti-LF antibody had lower initial creatinine levels than those without it [serum creatinine (mg/dl): 0.78 (0.6–1.0) vs. 1.43 (0.5–5.0), p &lt; 0.05]. Anti-MPO antibody was positive in only 1 patient, suggesting that MPO is a rare antigen for ANCA in LN."
	AJN13561	Influence of NH4CI on Polarized Release of Endogenous Protein Degradation Products and on Morphology in LLC-PK1 Cells Influence of NH4CI on Polarized Release of Endogenous Protein Degradation Products and on Morphology in LLC-PK1 Cells Increased renal ammoniagenesis is thought to be a causative factor for renal hypertrophy which occurs in several disorders accompanied by metabolic acidosis. We studied the influence of ammonia on the polarized release of degradation products of endogenous proteins in LLC-PK1 cells. Release of acid-soluble radioactivity to the extracellular space decreased under the influence of NH4Cl with a remarkable transient reduction of basolateral release. Electron microscopically NH4Cl-treated cells showed numerous enlarged lysosomes suggesting an accumulation of incompletely degraded cytoplasmatic material in the lysosomal compartment. We conclude that split products of lysosomal degradation of endogenous proteins are preferentially transported to the extracellular space via the basolateral plasma membrane.
	AJN13562	"Pentoxifylline Reduces in vitro Renal Myofibroblast Proliferation and Collagen Secretion Pentoxifylline Reduces in vitro Renal Myofibroblast Proliferation and Collagen Secretion Interstitial myofibroblasts (MF) are cells with features of both smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts. They have been universally recognized in situations of tubulointerstitial injury, where their presence has been shown to be a marker of disease progression. The objective of this study was to determine if functions of MF relevant to fibrogenesis can be modified in vitro by the phosphodiesterase inhibitor pentoxifylline (PTX). MF were obtained from sub-culture of normal rat kidney explant outgrowths maintained in DMEM + 20% fetal calf serum (FCS), supplemented with antibiotics. Cells were characterized on the basis of growth characteristics and immunohistochemistry. MF constituted &gt;95% of cells at passage 3. Cell culture media was supplemented with the potential antagonist PTX alone (0, 1, 10, 100 μg/ml) and in combination with TGFβ1 (5 ng/ml). Population kinetics, proliferation and collagen production were determined from cell growth, [3H]thymidine incorporation and [3H]proline incorporation in collagenous proteins, respectively. Both serum-stimulated population growth and proliferation were reduced in a linear fashion by 1, 10 and 100 μg/ml PTX (all p &lt; 0.05 versus 0 μg/ml). Effect of PTX on cell population growth was however reversible when PTX was removed. Basal collagen secretion was decreased by PTX at 10 and 100 μg/ml (p &lt; 0.05 versus 0 μg/ml), although cell layer collagen remained unchanged. Collagen production (secreted and cell layer) was augmented by 5 ng/ml TGFβ1. These effects on collagen production were partially reduced when 100 μg/ml PTX was added. The authors conclude that myofibroblast function can be altered with agonists/antagonists. Attempts to down-regulate fibrogenic functions of MF may therefore offer a valuable therapeutic strategy."
	AJN13564	"Cystatin C: Efficacy as Screening Test for Reduced Glomerular Filtration Rate Cystatin C: Efficacy as Screening Test for Reduced Glomerular Filtration Rate Serum cystatin C, a cysteine proteinase inhibitor, has been proposed as a marker of glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Serum cystatin C, serum creatinine and creatinine clearance were measured in 226 patients with various nephropathies, covering the entire range of renal function, to evaluate the efficacy of cystatin C as a screening test to detect reduced creatinine clearance in comparison to creatinine. Subgroups of 53 patients with glomerular and 26 patients with tubular impairment were compared to assess whether cystatin C performed differently in either glomerular or tubular impairment. Cystatin C detected reduced creatinine clearance with higher sensitivity (97 vs. 83%), and higher negative predictive value (96 vs. 87%) compared to creatinine. In parallel, 95% sensitivity of cystatin C as derived from receiver-operating characteristic plot was significantly higher (p &lt; 0.05). In the subgroups with glomerular or tubular impairment, cystatin C and creatinine did not significantly differ with regard to efficacy. Serum cystatin C is as efficacious as serum creatinine to detect reduced GFR as measured by creatinine clearance. The efficacy of cystatin C as a screening test may even be superior compared to creatinine. In addition, the efficacy of cystatin C is independent of either glomerular or tubular impairment."
	AJN13565	"Hand Contamination with Hepatitis C Virus in Staff Looking after Hepatitis C-Positive Hemodialysis Patients Hand Contamination with Hepatitis C Virus in Staff Looking after Hepatitis C-Positive Hemodialysis Patients Background: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major cause of hepatitis in hemodialysis (HD) patients. Routes other than blood transfusion play a role in the spread of HCV in HD patients. Molecular studies of HCV implicate nosocomial transmission of the virus in HD units. We conducted a clinicovirological study in our HD unit to investigate if the hands of dialysis personnel could represent a mode of transmission of HCV among HD patients. Methods: One liter of sterile water was used for each handwashing of dialysis personnel. The washing was collected in a sterile container and tested for HCV-RNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) within 3 h of collection. Eighty handwashings from nurses dialyzing HCV-positive patients (groupe A) and 100 handwashing from nurses dialyzing HCV-negative patients (group B) were tested for HCV-RNA. As a control, 60 handwashings were collected from the dialysis personnel before entering the dialysis unit (group C) and tested for HCV-RNA. Results: HCV-RNA was positive in 19 (23.75%) of samples of group A, in 8 (8%) of samples of group B (p &lt; 0.003) and in 2 (3.3%) of samples of group C (p &lt; 0.35). These two positive samples of group C were from nurses who had dialyzed HCV-negative patients. Conclusion: These results indicate the presence of HCV-RNA on the hands of some dialysis personnel in our HD unit, in spite fo adherence to the standard precautions. The hands of dialysis personnel are therefore a potential mode for facilitating transmission of HCV between HD patients."
	AJN13566	"The Significance of Atherogenic Indices in Patients on Hemodialysis The Significance of Atherogenic Indices in Patients on Hemodialysis Atherosclerotic diseases (ASD) are the major cause of mortality and morbidity in patients on hemodialysis (HD). To evaluate the significance and usefulness of atherogenic indices, we examined lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)), remnant-like particles cholesterol (RLP.C), homocysteine (Hcy), cardiac troponin T (TnT), and ankle-arm blood pressure index (AABI) in 114 patients on HD (male 79, female 35; age 62.1 ± 1.3 years). As a result, serum cardiac TnT and AABI levels in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) (n = 33) were significantly higher than those in patients without DM (n = 81). In patients with cerebrovascular diseases (CVD), serum levels of both RLP.C and Hcy, and AABI levels were significantly higher than those in patients without CVD. In patients with coronary artery diseases (CAD), serum cardiac TnT and AABI levels were significantly higher than those in patients without CAD. In patients with peripheral vascular diseases (PVD), serum levels of both Hcy and cardiac TnT were significantly higher than those in patients without PVD. Multiple regression analysis did show that the presence of DM, serum Hcy levels and age were independent factors as- sociated with ASD: ASD = –0.348 + 0.426 × DM (scored: 0, absence; 1, presence) + 0.005 × Hcy (nmol/ml) + 0.010 × Age (years) (p &lt; 0.001). In conclusion, the presence of DM and advanced age are major determinants for atherosclerosis. In addition, serum Hcy levels are independent risk factors for atherosclerosis irrespective of the absence of DM."
	AJN13567	Efficiency of Different Hollow-Fiber Hemofilters in Continuous Arteriovenous Hemodiafiltration Efficiency of Different Hollow-Fiber Hemofilters in Continuous Arteriovenous Hemodiafiltration Low dialysate to blood flow rate ratios are a unique characteristic of continuous arteriovenous hemodiafiltration (CAVHDF) that should allow complete saturation of dialysis fluid with small-molecular-weight blood solutes. The aim of the investigation was to evaluate the performance of different hemofilters in CAVHDF. In 10 critically ill patients with acute renal failure, the efficiency of four hollow-fiber hemofilters, polyamide 0.6 m2, polyacrylonitrile (PAN) 0.3 and 0.6 m2, acrylonitrile sodium methallylsulfonate (AN69HF) 0.6 m2, has been evaluated. For comparison, dialysate flow rates (Qdi) were standardized to 16.6 and 25 ml/min. Samples for urea nitrogen were obtained from the arterial blood line (Cbi) and from the dialysate exit port (Cdo) within 24-hour running time. Outflowing dialysate (Qdo) was also measured at the same time. Blood flow (Qb) was calculated by the bubble transit time technique. Diffusive and total urea clearances were determined. AN69HF and PAN hemofilters provided higher clearances than the polyamide hemofilter. Despite the smaller surface area, PAN 0.3 m2 had a total urea clearance comparable to that of PAN 0.6 m2 and AN69HF at Qdi = 16.6 ml/min. While at Qdi = 16.6 ml/min equilibrium between blood and dialysate (Cdo/Cbi ≅ 1) occurred with the AN69HF and PAN hemofilters, at Qdi = 25 ml/min the equilibrium was obtained only with the AN69HF hemofilter. In conclusion, almost complete urea saturation of dialysis fluid has not been obtained with all hemofilters tested here. In our experience, membrane characteristics play an important role in determining diffusive efficiency in CAVHDF.
	AJN13568	"Significance of Glomerular Deposition of C3c and C3d in IgA Nephropathy Significance of Glomerular Deposition of C3c and C3d in IgA Nephropathy Background: Complement activation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy. The clinico-pathological significance of the glomerular deposition of complement breakdown products, C3c and C3d in IgA nephropathy remains to be clarified. Methods: We examined the relationship between glomerular staining patterns of C3c and C3d and clinico-pathological findings with 163 patients with IgA nephropathy. Renal biopsy specimens were stained with C3c and C3d by immunofluorescence, and patients were divided into the following two groups: the intensity of C3c deposition stronger than C3d deposition, or equal to it (group A); the intensity of C3d deposition stronger than C3c deposition (group B). Results: In group A, the incidence of severe hematuria (over 20 urinary red blood cells in high-power field microscope (×400)) or of higher urinary fibrinogen degenerated products (over 0.1 μg/ml) was significantly higher than that in group B. In addition, group A showed a significant decrease in the glomerular filtration rate. Group A also showed a significantly higher incidence of glomerular endocapillary proliferation than in group B. Conclusion: These findings suggest that the glomerular deposition of C3c is associated with the inflammatory active phase of glomeruli in IgA nephropathy."
	AJN13569	"Calcitriol Therapy Modulates the Cellular Immune Responses in Hemodialysis Patients Calcitriol Therapy Modulates the Cellular Immune Responses in Hemodialysis Patients We studied the in vitro and in vivo effects of calcitriol (1,25D) on the cellular immune responses in 19 hemodialysis (HD) patients. In vitro 5-day treatment with 1,25D markedly reduced the HLA-DR expression by peripheral blood CD14+ monocytes from both HD patients and normal subjects in a similar fashion. The HLA-DR expression by monocytes and the phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-induced superoxide production (SOP) by neutrophils were significantly higher in the HD patients than in the normal subjects (p &lt; 0.01 and p &lt; 0.05, respectively). The phagocytic activity in the HD patients was significantly lower than that in the normal subjects (p &lt; 0.05). Moreover, the mitogen response of HD peripheral blood lymphocytes against pokeweed mitogen (PWM) was significantly lower than that of the controls (p &lt; 0.01) but was only slightly and insignificantly lower against Con A. Oral 1,25D pulse therapy resulted in a marked decrease in the HLA-DR expression by peripheral blood monocytes 2 and 4 days after the first 1,25D administration (p &lt; 0.01) in HD patients. Moreover, the treatment significantly enhanced the PMA-induced SOP 2 days after the treatment (p &lt; 0.01). However, the phagocytic activity by neutrophils and the mitogen responses to Con A and PWM by lymphocytes were not significantly affected by this treatment. These results suggest that 1,25D plays a significant role in the regulation of both the monocyte and neutrophil functions in HD patients."
	AJN13574	Protein Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Block the Stimulatory Actions of Phosphotyrosine Phosphatase Inhibitors to Increase Cell Proliferation, Alkaline Phosphatase Activity, and Collagen Synthesis in Normal HumanBone Cells Protein Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Block the Stimulatory Actions of Phosphotyrosine Phosphatase Inhibitors to Increase Cell Proliferation, Alkaline Phosphatase Activity, and Collagen Synthesis in Normal HumanBone Cells The present study sought to test whether inhibition of phosphotyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) would stimulate proliferation and differentiation of normal bone cells, and whether the PTP inhibitor-mediated effects would be blocked by protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitors. Three inhibitors [phenylarsine oxide (PAO), orthovanadate (VO4), and molybdate (MoO4)] and two normal human bone cells with different basal differentiation status (i.e., mandible- and vertebra-derived bone cells) were used. Cell proliferation was determined with [3H]thymidine incorporation, and confirmed by cell counting. Bone cell differentiation was assessed by increases in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) specific activity and collagen synthesis. The three test PTP inhibitors each stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation in both human bone cell types in a biphasic, dose-dependent manner with optimal doses of 20 nM PAO, 1 μM VO4 and 2 μM MoO4, respectively. These PTP inhibitors at mitogenic doses each significantly and reproducibly increased ALP specific activity and collagen synthesis. To determine whether the stimulatory effects of PTP inhibitors could be blocked by PTK inhibitors, the effects of tyrphostin A51 and erbstatin, two potent PTK inhibitors, on the actions of PTK inhibitors on [3H]thymidine incorporation and ALP specific activity were evaluated. Both tyrphostin A51 and erbstatin, which by themselves alone significantly inhibited human bone cell proliferation and increased ALP specific activity, completely abolished the stimulatory effects of each of the three test PTP inhibitors on bone cell proliferation and ALP specific activity. In conclusion, these findings confirm the premise that inhibition of PTP activities in normal human bone cells could lead to increases in cell proliferation and differentiation, effects that are independent of basal differentiation status of the cells. More importantly, this study demonstrates for the first time that the stimulatory actions of the PTP inhibitor on bone cell proliferation and ALP could be blocked by a PTK inhibitor, suggesting that the osteogenic effects of PTP inhibitors may depend on PTK activities, presumably to increase basal tyrosyl phosphorylation level. Accordingly, one should interpret results of studies using PTK inhibitors with caution in that an inhibition by a PTK inhibitor does not necessarily indicate the requirement of PTK activities, as it could also suggest involvement of an inhibition of PTPs.
	AJN13579	"Differing Roles of Body Mass and the Renin-Angiotensin System in Mediating the Hypertension Syndrome Differing Roles of Body Mass and the Renin-Angiotensin System in Mediating the Hypertension Syndrome Background: Hypertension is characterized not only by a metabolic syndrome that includes obesity and insulin resistance, but also by increases in left-ventricular mass (LVM), reduced arterial compliance and altered renal function. This investigation has examined a possible role for the renin-angiotensin system as well as body mass and insulin values in mediating these cardiovascular and renal aspects of the hypertension syndrome. Methods: This was a cross-sectional study of 142 patients identified by community screening. Mean (±SE) age was 46 ± 1 years and patients had stage I–II hypertension (blood pressure: 145 ± 1/98 ± 0.5 mm Hg). For analysis, patients were divided into 2 groups: those with body mass index (BMI) &lt;27 kg/m2 (lean, n = 72) or BMI &gt;27 kg/m2 (overweight, n = 70). Results: By univariate analysis, LVM in lean patients correlated significantly with plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma aldosterone, BMI and systolic BP; but with multivariate regression, only PRA (p &lt; 0.01) and BMI (p &lt; 0.04) remained in the model as independent predictors of LVM. For LVM in overweight patients, only BMI (p &lt; 0.02) remained in the model. For total arterial compliance (stroke volume/pulse pressure) only fasting plasma insulin (in the overweight group) was significantly related (p &lt; 0.01). For urinary protein excretion, the only predictor in lean patients was PRA (p &lt; 0.02), whereas in overweight patients it was BMI (p &lt; 0.03). For creatinine clearance, BMI (p &lt; 0.01 in overweight patients) remained in the model, though by univariate regression PRA had an age-dependent dichotomous relationship to clearance: r = +0.25 (p &lt; 0.01) in patients &lt;55 years, but r = –0.54 (p &lt; 0.01) in patients ≥55 years. Conclusion: These findings suggest that in overweight patients cardiovascular and renal values depend chiefly on body weight and insulin, but that in normal weight hypertensives the renin-angiotensin system may play the major role."
	AJN13580	"The Urinary Podocyte as a Marker for the Differential Diagnosis of Idiopathic Focal Glomerulosclerosis and Minimal-Change Nephrotic Syndrome The Urinary Podocyte as a Marker for the Differential Diagnosis of Idiopathic Focal Glomerulosclerosis and Minimal-Change Nephrotic Syndrome Background/Aims: Detection of podocytes in the urine sediment of children indicates that severe podocyte injury occurred in the glomerulus. Focal glomerulosclerosis (FGS) and minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) are kidney diseases characterized by massive proteinuria. The aim of the present study was to determine whether urinary podocytes can be detected in patients with idiopathic FGS or MCNS and whether immunosuppression therapy alters these cells. Methods: Twenty patients with MCNS (nephrotic stage, n = 12; remission stage, n = 8), 15 patients with FGS and 20 healthy controls were included in the present study. Urinary podocytes were stained by immunofluorescence. All patients with MCNS at the nephrotic stage received prednisolone for 6 months, and all patients with FGS received some form of immunosuppression therapy including prednisolone, cyclophosphamide or mizoribine for 12 months. Results: The 12 nephrotic-stage MCNS patients achieved remission after treatment. Seven of the 15 FGS patients also achieved remission, but the other 8 remained in the nephrotic stage. Urinary podocytes were not detected in any patient with MCNS nor were they detected in healthy controls. Urinary podocytes were detected in all FGS patients (mean, 4.2 cells/ml) before treatment and the number of cells decreased in the 7 patients who achieved remission. The number of podocytes was unchanged in the other 8 patients even after treatment. Conclusion: Urinary podocytes may be a useful diagnostic indicator for differentiation between FGS and MCNS. These cells may also mark disease progression in cases of FGS."
	AJN13581	Leptin and Serum Erythropoietin in Hemodialyzed and Peritoneally Dialyzed Uremic Patients during rHuEPO Therapy Leptin and Serum Erythropoietin in Hemodialyzed and Peritoneally Dialyzed Uremic Patients during rHuEPO Therapy Leptin produced by fat cell has an unanticipated role in hematopoietic system development. We examined the relationships between leptinemia and requirements of erythropoietin (Epo), endogenous Epo levels as well as markers of inflammation: C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) in rHuEPO-treated patients maintained on chronic hemodialyses or peritoneal dialyses. The studies were performed on 51 chronically hemodialyzed patients, 20 of them did not receive rHuEPO, 31 subjects received rHuEPO, and 22 patients on CAPD, 13 of them did not receive rHuEPO, 9 subjects were given rHuEPO. In hemodialyzed patients (Epo and Non-Epo group) leptin levels were significantly higher when compared to CAPD patients (Epo and Non-Epo group, respectively). Leptin in peritoneal fluid was significantly higher in the Non-Epo group. In ultrafiltrate, leptin levels were below the detection limit of 0.5 ng/ml. Epo levels in the HD + Epo group were significantly lower than in the HD + Non-Epo group and CAPD + Epo group. TNFα and IL-1 concentrations were significantly lower in both groups of CAPD patients when compared to respective HD groups. Treatment with rHuEPO resulted in nonsignificant decline in serum leptin (p = 0.07 in HD and p = 0.08 in CAPD) and significant leptin loss in peritoneal fluid. It may be of clinical relevance in dialyzed patients. In both groups of Epo-treated patients, positive physiological correlation between leptinemia and BMI disappeared. Leptin levels do not correlate with rHuEPO requirements and serum Epo in dialyzed patients.
	AJN13582	"Serum Ionized Magnesium Levels in Type 2 Diabetic Patients with Microalbuminuria or Clinical Proteinuria Serum Ionized Magnesium Levels in Type 2 Diabetic Patients with Microalbuminuria or Clinical Proteinuria Background/Aims: The association between microalbuminuria and magnesium depletion is a controversial issue, and serum ionized magnesium levels have not been previously studied in patients with different grades of diabetic nephropathy. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate circulating ionized magnesium concentrations in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and incipient or overt diabetic nephropathy. Methods: We measured fasting plasma glucose, creatinine, creatinine clearance estimate, total cholesterol and triglycerides, and serum ionized magnesium (ion-selective electrodes, ISE) in 30 NIDDM patients with urinary albumin excretion rate (UAER) &lt;20 μg/min (normoalbuminuria), 30 NIDDM patients with microalbuminuria (20 &lt; UAER &lt; 200 μg/min), 30 NIDDM patients with clinical proteinuria (UAER &gt;200 μg/min), and 20 healthy subjects. Results: Serum ionized magnesium levels were significantly reduced in diabetic patients when compared to control subjects (0.39 ± 0.06 vs. 0.58 ± 0.05 mmol/l, p &lt; 0.001). Moreover, diabetic patients with microalbuminuria or clinical proteinuria showed a significant decrease in serum ionized magnesium with respect to normoalbuminuria group (normoalbuminuria: 0.45 ± 0.02 mmol/l; microalbuminuria: 0.36 ± 0.05 mmol/l, p &lt; 0.001; clinical proteinuria: 0.35 ± 0.04 mmol/l, p &lt; 0.001). Serum ionized magnesium showed a significant negative correlation with plasma HbA1c and triglycerides in both microalbuminuria and clinical proteinuria groups. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that circulating ionized magnesium levels decrease together with the increase of plasma HbA1c and triglycerides in NIDDM patients with incipient or overt nephropathy, also after adjusting for age, sex, BMI, diabetes duration, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, hypoglycemic therapy, plasma creatinine, creatinine clearance, plasma cholesterol and fasting glucose. Conclusions: Microalbuminuria and clinical proteinuria, as well as poor glycometabolic control and hypertriglyceridemia, are associated to relevant alterations in magnesium metabolism, and the measurement of serum ionized magnesium seems to represent a useful biochemical tool for the study of magnesium disturbances in patients with different grades of diabetic nephropathy."
	AJN13583	Left Ventricular Hypertrophy in Hypertensive Patients with Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease: Influence of Blood Pressure and Humoral and Neurohormonal Factors Left Ventricular Hypertrophy in Hypertensive Patients with Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease: Influence of Blood Pressure and Humoral and Neurohormonal Factors Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is a common finding in hypertensive autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) patients. There are few studies on the influence of blood pressure (BP) and nonhemodynamic factors on LVH in these patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between BP, humoral and neurohormonal factors and left ventricular mass (LVM) in hypertensive ADPKD patients. In 20 hypertensive ADPKD patients, ambulatory BP was monitored for 24 h, left ventricular dimensions were estimated by echocardiography, and plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma noradrenaline (NA), angiotensin II (Ang II), aldosterone, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) were also determined. Twenty age- and sex-matched essential hypertensive subjects served as controls. Ambulatory BP and LVM index were similar in the two groups, although male ADPKD patients had higher LVM indices than their matched controls. Eight ADPKD patients (40%) and 6 essential hypertensives (30%) showed LVH. PRA, Ang II, aldosterone, ANP and IGF-I levels were similar in the two groups, but plasma NA levels were higher in ADPKD patients than in controls (281 ± 158 vs. 160 ± 62 pg/ml, p = 0.004). ADPKD patients with LVH did not differ from those without LVH with regard to humoral and neurohormonal parameters, but had higher ambulatory BP levels. In ADPKD patients, correlation analysis revealed a significant association between LVM index and 24-hour systolic and diastolic BP, but not with any of the hormonal factors evaluated. On multiple regression analysis, 24-hour diastolic BP was the only independent variable linked to LVM index. In conclusion, ambulatory BP is one of the most important determinants of LVM in hypertensive ADPKD patients. Further studies are warranted to elucidate the role of nonhemodynamic factors in the pathogenesis of LVH in this population.
	AJN13584	Effects of L-Carnitine Supplementation on Cardiac Morbidity in Hemodialyzed Patients Effects of L-Carnitine Supplementation on Cardiac Morbidity in Hemodialyzed Patients Cardiac diseases are well known among patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD), and carnitine deficiency may be an important factor in cardiac morbidity. We studied the effects of low-dose L-carnitine treatment (500 mg/day) on chest symptoms (dyspnea on exertion, chest pain, palpitation), cardiac function, and left ventricular (LV) mass in 9 HD patients with reduced ejection fraction (EF). After 6 months of L-carnitine treatment, most patients had at least some improvement in chest symptoms, while LVEF was increased and LV mass was decreased. Carnitine fractions increased and reached plateaus at 2–3 times the baseline levels. These results suggest that prolonged low-dose L-carnitine treatment can improve the cardiac morbidity by restoring decreased carnitine tissue levels and impaired oxidation of FFA.
	AJN13593	Developmental Change in Na,K-ATPase α1 and β1 Expression in Normal and Hypothyroid Rat Renal Cortex Developmental Change in Na,K-ATPase α1 and β1 Expression in Normal and Hypothyroid Rat Renal Cortex Renal Na,K-ATPase drives active reabsorption of sodium and cotransported solutes along the nephron. There is a large increase in net Na+ reabsorption in the postnatal rat kidney. It has previously been established that the postnatal increase in expression of sodium pump isoforms in the brain, but not the heart, is blunted in the hypothyroid neonate. The aims of this study were to establish whether the developmental increase in renal sodium transport is associated with coordinate increases in the abundance of the sodium pump α1 catalytic and β1 glycoprotein subunits and Na,K-ATPase activity, and to determine whether thyroid status influences the postnatal increase in renal Na,K-ATPase expression. Pregnant rats were made hypothyroid with low iodine diet, propylthiouracil and perchlorate. Offspring were hypothyroid assessed by triiodothyronine/thyroxine RIA. Renal cortical membranes were prepared from euthyroid and hypothyroid rats from 6 to 24 days of age. There was no change in Na,K-ATPase activity or expression between 6 and 15 days. Between 15 and 24 days, Na,K-ATPase activity increased 1.35-fold while sodium pump α1 and β1 subunit abundance increased coordinately to 1.7- and 2-fold over the previous period, respectively. In hypothyroid neonates, kidney weight was less than in euthyroids, and Na,K-ATPase activity, α1 and β1 subunit pool sizes did not significantly increase as a function of age between 6 and 24 days. We conclude that the postnatal increase in sodium pump activity can be accounted for by coordinate increases in the pool sizes of α1 and β1 subunits and that, like in brain, this increased Na,K-ATPase expression is dependent on normal thyroid status.
